D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

warning level: THREAT (Central Region)

FAO Emergency Centre for Locust Op er a tions

General Situation during July 2007
Forecast until mid-September 2007

No. 346

(2 August 2007) 

The Desert Locust situation during July 

remained extremely serious in Yemen for a third 
consecutive month. Egg laying, hatching and 
hopper band formation occurred within a large 
portion of the interior. By the end of the month, 
immature swarms started to form and were 
moving into crops. At the same time, breeding 
continued and new infestations were being found 
in areas that had not been surveyed previously. 
Ground control operations commenced in early 
July and treated nearly 19,000 ha. More swarms 
will form during August but most of these swarms 
are likely to remain in the interior. There is a slight 
risk that some swarms could move to the Red 
Sea coastal plains of Yemen and Saudi Arabia 
or to the Indo-Pakistan border via Oman. If more 
rainfall occurs in the interior of Yemen, another 
generation of egg laying could start by the end 
of August with hatching and band formation in 
September. 

Western Region. The situation remained calm 

during July. Seasonal rains commenced in the 
summer breeding areas in the Sahel between 
Mauritania and Chad, and breeding conditions were 
improving because of the good rainfall. Isolated 
mature adults were reported in southern Mauritania 
and were probably present in Mali, Niger or Chad 
but surveys were not undertaken in these countries. 
Small-scale breeding will occur in the northern Sahel 
during the forecast period, causing locust numbers 

The FAO Desert Bulletin is issued monthly, supplemented by
Updates during periods of increased Desert Locust activity, and is 
distributed by e-mail, FAO pouch and airmail by the Locusts and
Other Migratory Pests Group, AGP Division, FAO, 00153 Rome, Italy.
It is also available on the Internet.
Telephone: +39 06 570 52420 (7 days/week, 24 hr)
Facsimile: +39 06 570 55271
E-mail: eclo@fao.org
Internet:  www.fao.org
DLIS: www.fao.org/ag/locusts

to increase slightly. No locusts were reported in 
Northwest Africa except for an isolated adult in 
northwest Libya.

Central Region. Apart from Yemen, the situation 

remained calm in the Region during July. Control 
teams treated 1,500 ha of hopper and adult groups in 
southern Oman that represented the eastward extent 
of the infestations in Yemen. Seasonal rains started 
in the interior of Sudan where good rainfall occurred 
throughout the summer breeding area from Darfur 
to western Eritrea. Scattered solitarious adults were 
present in the Baiyuda Desert north of Khartoum. So 
far, only limited surveys could be carried out in Sudan. 
During the next few months, small-scale breeding 
will cause locust numbers to increase slightly and it 
will be important to conduct surveys and monitor the 
situation closely. Good rains that fell along both sides 
of the Red Sea in July, unusual for this time of year, 
will cause breeding conditions to improve, especially 
on the Tihama coast in Yemen. In northeast Eritrea, 
solitarious adults laid eggs on the coast near the 
Sudanese border. Consequently, locust numbers 
could increase on both sides of the Red Sea. No 
locusts were reported elsewhere in the Region.

Eastern Region. Some locusts appeared on the 

Gujarat coast in India in early July that may have 
come from infestations in western Pakistan or perhaps 
northern Somalia. Small-scale breeding commenced 
with the onset of the monsoon rains in Rajasthan, 
India and probably in adjacent areas of Pakistan. 
Consequently, locust numbers will gradually increase 
in both countries. There is a very low possibility that 
a few swarms from Yemen could reach the Indo-
Pakistan border in August.

breeding within a large portion of the interior of Sudan. 
In Eritrea, good rains fell in the highlands and, more 
importantly, in the western lowlands where breeding 
conditions were improving. Along the Red Sea, good 
rains fell in coastal and subcoastal areas between 
Abu Ramad, Egypt and Massawa, Eritrea and for 
the second consecutive month from Qunﬁ dah, Saudi 
Arabia to Bab El Mandeb in Yemen. Rainfall was 
heaviest on the Yemeni Tihama coast. Very little rain 
fell in the Yemen interior between Marib and the Oman 
border except for light showers on a few days during 
the second and third weeks of July. Consequently, soil 
conditions had become dry by the end of the month, 
except near Minwakh and Thamud, but vegetation 
remained green except near Zamakh. In the Horn 
of Africa, light rains fell on the plateau between 
Dire Dawa, Ethiopia and Hargeisa in northwestern 
Somalia, and breeding conditions remained favourable 
in many areas. Light rains also fell in parts of the 
interior in northern Oman and vegetation was drying 
out in the south.

In the Eastern Region, moderate to heavy rains 

associated with the monsoon fell in the summer 
breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan 
border during the ﬁ rst decade of July. In Pakistan, 
most of the rainfall was concentrated in Tharparkar 
and Khairpur deserts (south of Rohri) and between 
Bahawalpur and the Indian border. In India, rains fell 
throughout Rajasthan and Gujarat. Less rain fell along 
the Rajasthan Canal northeast of Jaisalmer. During 
the second half of July, very little rain fell in either 
country. Nevertheless, ecological conditions were 
becoming favourable for breeding along both sides of 
the border. Elsewhere, light rains fell in the mountains 
in southeast Iran between Chabahar and Bampur 
that may runoff onto the coastal plains. Similar rains 
fell in coastal and interior areas in western Pakistan 
between Pasni and Khuzdar. These rains may have 
allowed ecological conditions to be suitable for small 
scale breeding in both countries.

Area Treated

Oman    
Yemen 

  1,500 ha (July)
18,591 ha (4-31 July)

No. 346

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Weather & Ecological 
Con di tions in July 2007

Ecological conditions improved in the summer 

breeding areas in the Sahel of West Africa and 
Sudan where seasonal rains commenced during 
July. Good rains fell for a second month along 
parts of the Red Sea coast. Breeding conditions 
remained unusually favourable in the interior 
of Yemen. Monsoon rains started along both 
sides of the Indo-Pakistan border and ecological 
conditions were improving.
 

In the Western Region, the Inter-Tropical 

Convergence Zone (ITCZ) oscillated between 15N 
and 20N over the Sahel with occasional northward 
surges to 23N near the Algerian/Malian border. 
Consequently, seasonal rains began to fall in early 
July in parts of the summer breeding areas. In 
Mauritania, light rains fell near Aleg, Kiffa and in the 
southeast between Aioun, Nema and Oualata. Rains 
reach as far north as 18N near N’Beika during the 
second decade, and heavy showers fell at the end 
of the month in Hodh El Gharbi. Light to moderate 
showers fell at times over most of northern Mali (north 
of Tombouctou, Timetrine, Tilemsi Valley, Adrar des 
Iforas and Tamesna). Above-average rainfall occurred 
in northern Niger (Tamesna, Air Mountains) and 
between Tanout and Bilma. In Chad, light rains fell as 
far north as 18N near Faya and Fada as well as in the 
Tibesti Mountains. As a result, ecological conditions 
were becoming favourable for breeding in the above 
areas. Mainly dry conditions prevailed in northwest 
Africa, except for light rains in western Algeria 
between Adrar and the Moroccan border as well as 
further south in the Hoggar Mountains and along the 
Malian border near Bir Bou Mokhtar where vegetation 
was becoming green.

In the Central Region, seasonal rains commenced 
in early July in the summer breeding areas in Sudan. 
Light to moderate rains fell over a widespread area 
extending from West Darfur to the Red Sea Hills, 
including parts of northern Sudan (Wadi Milk, Baiyuda 
Desert and Dongola). The heaviest rains fell north of 
El Obeid and east of El Fasher during the ﬁ rst decade. 
Less rain fell during the last week of July. As a result, 
ecological conditions were becoming favourable for 
page 2 of   8

Desert Locust
Situation and Forecast

( see also the summary on page 1 )

WESTERN REGION
Mauritania
• SITUATION
During July, isolated mature solitarious adults 
were present at a few places in the south – east 
of Kaedi (1612N/1332W) in Gorgol and south 
of Kiffa (1638N/1124W) in Assaba –  and in the 
southeast between Timbedra (1614N/0809W), Nema 
(1636N/0715W) and Oualata (1717N/0701W) in Hodh 
Ech Chargui.
• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding will occur in the south and 

southeast, causing locust numbers to increase slightly.

Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 

Côte d’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, 
Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Togo

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Algeria
• SITUATION
During July, no locusts were seen during surveys 
carried out in the central and southern Sahara near 
Adrar (2753N/0017W), Tamanrasset (2250N/0528E), 
Djanet (2434N/0930E) and along the Malian border 
near Bir Bou Mokhtar (2120N/0056E).

• FORECAST
Isolated adults could appear in the south near 

Tamanrasset and Bir Bou Mokhtar and breed on a 
small scale if rainfall occurs.

Mali
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out, but an isolated 

solitarious adult was reported on 14 June along the 
Niger River southeast of Gao (1616N/0003W).

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present north of 

Tombouctou and in parts of the northeast (Timetrine, 
Tilemsi Valley, Adrar des Iforas and Tamesna). Small-
scale breeding will occur in areas of recent rainfall, 
causing locust numbers to increase slightly.

Niger
• SITUATION
No reports were received in July.
• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present in parts of 

Tamesna and perhaps in southeastern Air. Small-scale 
breeding will occur in areas of recent rainfall, causing 
locust numbers to increase slightly. 

Chad
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during June. No reports were received in 
July.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present in parts of 
the centre and northeast where small-scale breeding 
is expcted to occur in areas of recent rainfall, causing 
locust numbers to increase slightly.

Senegal
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during July.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Morocco 
• SITUATION
No locusts were reported during July.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
• SITUATION
During July, an isolated solitarious mature adult was 

seen near Ghadames (3010N/0930E).

 • FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Tunisia
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during July.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

CENTRAL REGION
Sudan
• SITUATION
On 19-25 July, limited surveys were carried out in 

the River Nile State where scattered mature solitarious 
adults were seen in the Baiyuda Desert between 
Atbara (1742N/3400E) and Merowe (1830N/3149E), 
in the Nile Valley south of Abu Hamed (1932N/3320E) 
and at one place east of Atbara. No surveys were 
carried out in the summer breeding areas in Darfur, 
Kordofan, White Nile or Kassala.

No. 346

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 3 of   8

No. 346

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

• Forecast
Small populations will persist in the River Nile State 

where laying and hatching will occur in August. Low 
numbers of adults are almost certainly present in the 
summer breeding areas in West and North Darfur, 
North Kordofan, White Nile and Kassala States 
where small-scale breeding is likely to be in progress. 
Breeding will continue during the forecast period, 
causing locust numbers to increase slightly. Surveys 
should be conducted in these areas on a regular 
basis.

Eritrea
• SITUATION
During July, no locusts were seen during surveys in 

the summer breeding areas in the western lowlands. 
On the Red Sea coast, mature adults were present 
and laying eggs during the ﬁ rst and third weeks of 
July at several places in the north between Mehimet 
(1723N/3833E) and the Sudanese border. Mature 
adults were also seen on the coast near Mersa 
Gulbub (1633N/3908E) and in the foothills near Afabet 
(1612N/3841E). No locusts were seen further south 
along the coast to Tio (1441N/4057E).

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is likely to occur in the 
western lowlands and on the northern Red Sea 
coast between Mehimet and Karora, causing locust 
numbers to increase slightly.

Ethiopia
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out 

near Dire Dawa during the ﬁ rst half of July.

• FORECAST
Small residual adult populations may be present 

between Dire Dawa and northern Somalia. If 
conditions remain favourable, small-scale breeding 
could occur in areas of recent rainfall.

Djibouti
• SITUATION
No locusts were reported during July.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

page 4 of   8

Somalia
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported after 1 July.

• FORECAST
Small residual adult populations may be present on 
the plateau between Boroma and Burao and perhaps 
on the coast near Berbera. If conditions remain 
favourable, small-scale breeding could occur in areas 
of recent rainfall.

Egypt
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried 

out in July near Lake Nasser between Abu Simbel 
(2219N/3138E) and Tushka (2247N/3126E).

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Saudi Arabia
• SITUATION
During the second week of July, no locusts 

were seen on the Red Sea coast near Qunﬁ dah 
(1909N/4107E) or in previously infested areas in the 
interior near Buraydah (2621N/4358E) and Riyadh.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults may appear on the southern 

coast of the Red Sea between Qunﬁ dah and Jizan 
and breed on a small scale in areas of recent rainfall. 
There is a very low possibility that a few swarms could 
arrive in these areas from Yemen.

Yemen
• SITUATION
During July, egg laying and hatching continued 

within a large portion of the interior. The most 
signiﬁ cant infestations were in remote wadis in the 
plateau north of W. Hadhramaut between Al Abr 
(1608N/4714E) and Thamud (1717N/4955E) where 
hoppers formed groups and bands at densities up 
to 400 hoppers/m2. Smaller infestations continued 
east to the Oman border at Shehan (1746N/5229E) 
and south to Hat (1719N/5205E). Hatching and band 
formation also occurred in wadis in the plateau south 
of W. Hadhramaut, in crops of W. Hadhramaut itself, 
and in the traditional breeding areas in Shabwah near 
Ataq (1435N/4649E) and Bayhan (1452N/4545E). 
Groups of solitarious and transiens immature and 
mature adults were scattered throughout most of 
these areas. Although hopper development was 
not well synchronized, most hoppers had reached 
fourth or ﬁ fth instar by the end of the month and were 
ﬂ edging and forming groups of immature adults. From 
the 26th onwards, a few small immature swarms of up 
to 3 km2 in size were reported near W. Hadhramaut. 

Ground control operations commenced on 4 July and 
18,591 ha were treated during July.

Solitarious and transiens hoppers and adults were 

present on the desert plains about 100 km west of 
Al Abr, and mature solitarious adults were seen at 
a few places in the Al-Jawf region near Al Hazm 
(1609N/4447E).

Pakistan
• SITUATION
During the second half of June, scattered maturing 

adults were west of Karachi near Uthal and in the 
summer breeding areas in the Khairpur Desert south 
of Rohri and in Cholistan Desert between Rahimyar 
Khan (2822N/7020E) and the Indian border.

On the southern coast, late instar hoppers and a 

During the ﬁ rst half of July, scattered mature 

few groups and bands, mixed with solitarious and 
transiens mature adults, were present during the ﬁ rst 
decade of July near Seyhut (1512N/5115E) and in 
the interior near Al Ghaydah (1612N/5210E). Some 
mature adults were also seen on the coast near 
Mukalla (1431N/4908E).

• FORECAST
Moderate numbers of small swarms will form during 

adults persisted in the above areas. No surveys were 
conducted in the Tharparkar Desert.

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding will cause locust numbers to 
increase in Tharparkar, Khairpur and Cholistan during 
the forecast period. There is a very low possibility that 
a few swarms could appear from Yemen via Oman in 
August.

August as the remaining hoppers ﬂ edge in currently 
infested areas. As vegetation dries out, swarms are 
likely to move between Marib and the Oman border 
where they will mature in areas that remain green. 
If more rainfall occurs, egg laying could start by the 
end of August with hatching and band formation in 
September. Most of the swarms are expected to 
stay in the interior but there is a slight risk that some 
swarms could move to the Sana'a highlands and to 
the Red Sea coastal plains or to southern Oman.

 
Oman
• SITUATION
During July, groups of solitarious and transiens 

hoppers of all instars mixed with solitarious, transiens 
and gregarious immature and mature adults were 
present along the Yemeni border near Maziuna 
(1750N/5239E). Some adults were copulating. Ground 
control teams treated 1,500 ha. No locusts were seen 
during surveys in the northern regions of Sharqiya and 
Batinah.

• FORECAST
Unless further rainfall occurs, breeding will end 
and locust numbers will decline in the south along 
the Yemeni border. Nevertheless, there is a slight risk 
that some swarms could appear in this region from 
adjacent areas in Yemen.

Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 

Lebanon, Palestine, Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, 
UAE and Uganda

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

EASTERN REGION
Iran
• SITUATION
No reports were received during July.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

India
• SITUATION
On 3 July, low numbers of immature and mature 

adults were seen on the coast of Gujarat in the 
Rann of Kutch near the Pakistani border. During the 
remainder of the month, scattered solitarious adults 
were present in several districts (Jaisalmer, Bikaner, 
Barmer and Jodhpur) of Rajasthan where they 
matured and laid eggs.

• FORECAST
Small-scale hatching will occur during August 
and cause locust numbers to increase slightly in 
Rajasthan. There is a very low possibility that a 
few swarms could appear from Yemen via Oman in 
August.

Afghanistan
• SITUATION
No reports received.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Announcements

Locust reporting. During recession periods, 

countries should report at least once/month and send 
RAMSES data with a brief interpretation. During 
caution (yellow) periods, locust outbreaks, upsurges 
and plagues, RAMSES output ﬁ les with a brief 
interpretation should be sent twice/week and affected 

No. 346

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 5 of   8

No. 346

Food_Security/.Locusts/index.html. Comments 
and questions can be addressed to Pietro Ceccato 
(pceccato@iri.columbia.edu). 

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

countries are encouraged to prepare decadal bulletins 
summarizing the situation. All information should 
be sent by e-mail to the FAO/ECLO Desert Locust 
Information Service (eclo@fao.org). Information 
received by the end of the month will be included in 
the FAO Desert Locust Bulletin for the current month; 
otherwise, it will not appear until the following month. 
Reports should be sent even if no locusts were found 
or if no surveys were conducted.

eLocust2. FAO has developed a new version 

of eLocust in collaboration with affected countries 
and the French Space Agency (CNES/Novacom) 
that allows ﬁ eld ofﬁ cers to enter survey and control 
data directly in the ﬁ eld and transmit it in real time 
via satellite to their national locust centre. Data 
can also be downloaded to a PC and visualized on 
GoogleEarth. The software is in both English and 
French. FAO DLIS has distributed units to nearly all of 
the frontline countries. Photos and more information 
are available at: www.fao.org/ag/locusts/en/activ/DLIS/
index.html

Desert Locust warning levels. A colour-coded 

scheme indicates the seriousness of the current 
Desert Locust situation: green for calm, yellow for 
caution, orange for threat and red for danger. The 
scheme is applied to the Locust Watch web page and 
to the monthly bulletin’s header. The levels indicate 
the perceived risk or threat of current Desert Locust 
infestations to crops and appropriate actions are 
suggested for each level.

New information on Locust Watch. DLIS 

launched a new initiative in October called Desert 
Locust e-info news as a means of keeping everyone 
informed on a weekly basis of new information on the 
Locust Group’s web page, Locust Watch (www.fao.
org/ag/locusts). The latest additions are:
• 

Several updates during July 

 Two press releases on the Yemen 

Locust situation. 
(home page and in Archives section)
Press.
situation, 4 and 26 July (home page)
Pesticide Referee Group.
reports, 1989-2004 (Publications section)
SW Asia Commission.
1964-2006 (Publications section)
Outbreaks and upsurges.
section)

 1st to 9th session 

• 

• 

• 

• 

 1st to 25th session reports, 

 New format (Archives 

Links to the above information can be found in the 
Latest Additions section on Locust Watch.

2007 events. The following meetings are 

scheduled:
• 

. 6th Liaison Ofﬁ cers Meeting 

EMPRES/WR
(26-30 November) and 3rd Steering Committee 
(3-4 December), Agadir (Morocco)

Glossary of terms

The following special terms are used in the Desert 

Locust Bulletin when reporting locusts:

NON-GREGARIOUS ADULTS AND HOPPERS
ISOLATED   (FEW) 

•  very few present and no mu tu al reaction occurring;
•  0 - 1 adult/400 m foot transect (or less than 25/ha). 

EMPRES/CRC website. Detailed information 

SCATTERED  (SOME, LOW NUMBERS) 

on EMPRES/CR and the FAO Central Region 
Commission as well as member country proﬁ les 
can be found on the new EMPRES/CRC website at: 
www.crc-empres.org.

MODIS imagery. Columbia University’s 

International Research Institute for Climate and 
Society (IRI) has started to provide 16-day 250-
metre resolution MODIS imagery for monitoring 
ecological conditions in the Desert Locust 
recession area, in addition to the daily rainfall 
estimates already available. These products can 
be downloaded in different formats suitable for 
GIS at: http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.edu/maproom/.

page 6 of   8

•  enough present for mutual reaction to be possible 

but no ground or basking groups seen;

•  1 - 20 adults/400 m foot transect (or 25 - 500/ha).  

GROUP 

•  forming ground or basking groups;
•  20+ adults/400 m foot transect (or 500+/ha).

ADULT SWARM AND HOPPER BAND SIZES
VERY SMALL

•  swarm: less than 1 km2 

• band: 1 - 25 m2

SMALL

•  swarm: 1 - 10 km2 

• band: 25 - 2,500 m2

MEDIUM

•  swarm: 10 - 100 km2  

• band: 2,500 m2 - 10 ha

LARGE

•  swarm: 100 - 500 km2 

• band: 10 - 50 ha

WARNING LEVELS 
GREEN

VERY LARGE

•  swarm: 500+ km2 

• band: 50+ ha

RAINFALL
LIGHT

•  1 - 20 mm of rainfall.

MODERATE

•  21 - 50 mm of rainfall.

HEAVY

•  more than 50 mm of rainfall.

OTHER REPORTING TERMS
BREEDING

• the process of reproduction from copulation to   

ﬂ edg ing.
SUMMER RAINS AND BREEDING
•  July - September/October
WINTER RAINS AND BREEDING

•  October - January/February

SPRING RAINS AND BREEDING

•  February - June/July

DECLINE

•  a period characterised by breeding failure and/or 

suc cess ful control leading to the dissociation of 
swarm ing populations and the onset of recessions; 
can be regional or major.
OUTBREAK

•  a marked increase in locust numbers due to 

con cen tra tion, multiplication and gregarisation 
which, unless checked, can lead to the formation of 
hopper bands and swarms.
UPSURGE

•  a period following a recession marked initially 

by a very large increase in locust numbers and 
con tem po ra ne ous outbreaks followed by the 
production of two or more successive seasons of 
transient-to- gre gar i ous breeding in complimentary 
seasonal breed ing areas in the same or 
neighbouring Desert Lo cust regions.
PLAGUE

•  a period of one or more years of widespread and 
heavy infestations, the majority of which occur as 
bands or swarms. A major plague exists when two 
or more regions are affected simultaneously.
RECESSION

•  period without widespread and heavy infestations 

by swarms.
REMISSION

•  period of deep recession marked by the complete 

absence of gregarious populations.

•  Calm. No threat to crops. Maintain regular surveys 

and monitoring.
YELLOW

•  Caution. Potential threat to crops. Increased 

vigilance is required; control operations may be 
needed.
RED

•  Danger. Signiﬁ cant threat to crops. Intensive survey 

and control operations must be undertaken.

REGIONS
WESTERN

•  locust-affected countries in West and North-West 

Africa: Algeria, Chad, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, 
Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Tunisia; during plagues 
only: Burkino Faso, Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea 
and Guinea-Bissau.
CENTRAL

•  locust-affected countries along the Red Sea: 

Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Oman, Saudi 
Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen; during plagues 
only: Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, UAE and Uganda.
EASTERN

•  locust-affected countries in South-West Asia: 

Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan.

No. 346

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 7 of   8

Desert  Locust  Summary
Criquet  pèlerin  -  Situation  résumée

346

10

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

30

20

30

20

10

F O R E C A S T   T O :
P R E V I S I O N   A U :

15.09.07

LIKELY

PROBABLE

POSSIBLE
POSSIBLE

10

20

30

40

favourable breeding conditions
conditions favourables à la reproduction

major swarm(s)
essaim(s) important(s)

minor swarm(s)
essaim(s) limité(s)

non swarming adults
adultes non essaimant

SITUATION:

July 2007
juillet 2007

swarms or

hopper bands

essaims ou

bandes larvaires

immature adults
adultes immatures
mature or partly mature adults
adultes matures ou partiellement matures
adults, maturity unknown
adultes, maturité inconnue
egg laying or eggs
pontes ou œufs
hoppers
larves
hoppers & adults (combined symbol example)
larves et adultes (exemple symboles combinés)

adults / hoppers
adultes / larves
in

density

groups

low/unknown

en

groupes

densité

faible/inconnue

