D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

FAO Emergency Centre for Locust Op er a tions

General Situation during September 2007
Forecast until mid-November 2007

No. 348

(2 October 2007) 

Central Region. Locust infestations declined in 
the interior of Yemen as vegetation dried out and 
adult groups and swarms formed and moved into 
the highlands and southern coastal areas. Limited 
ground control operations were carried out and only 
small residual populations remained by the end of the 
month. Local breeding started on the Red Sea coast 
in Yemen where hatching occurred and a few hopper 
bands formed. Breeding will commence shortly in 
adjacent areas of Saudi Arabia where mature adults 
appeared in September. Groups of solitarious adults 
were laying eggs on the coast in Eritrea and Sudan 
that will hatch in October. Consequently, breeding 
has started along both sides of the Red Sea about a 
month or two earlier than in most years which should 
allow sufﬁ cient time for locust numbers to increase 
signiﬁ cantly if rains continue. Several very mobile 
immature and maturing swarms crossed the Gulf 
of Aden from southern Yemen and rapidly moved 
through Djibouti to eastern Ethiopia and east across 
northern Somalia. These locusts may persist in 
northern Somalia and slowly mature or perhaps move 
south into the Ogaden in November. Local breeding 
continued in northeast Oman where ground control 
operations were carried out against hopper groups.

Eastern Region. Small-scale breeding occurred in 
Rajasthan, India and along the border in the Cholistan 
Desert in Pakistan. Limited control operations were 
carried out in India. Rainfall declined in the summer 
breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan 
border. As vegetation dries out and breeding ends, 
locust numbers will decline and scattered adults could 
move west towards Baluchistan, Pakistan. 

The Desert Locust outbreak continued in Yemen 

during September as more swarms formed in the 
interior and moved into the highlands and to the 
southern coast. Some swarms crossed the Gulf 
of Aden to Djibouti, eastern Ethiopia and northern 
Somalia while others perished at sea. So far, no 
swarms have reached the Red Sea coastal plains 
where small-scale local breeding was underway in 
Yemen, Eritrea and Sudan. Nevertheless, breeding 
is expected to cause locust numbers to increase 
dramatically in the coming months on the Red Sea 
coast in Yemen and, to a lesser extent, in Eritrea, 
Sudan and Saudi Arabia. Small-scale breeding 
occurred in the Sahel in West Africa and along the 
Indo-Pakistan border, causing locust numbers to 
increase slightly. As seasonal rains have nearly 
stopped in the western and eastern regions and, 
as breeding ends, no signiﬁ cant developments are 
expected.

Western Region. The situation continued to 

remain calm during September. Small-scale breeding 
occurred in parts of southern and central Mauritania, 
in central Niger and in eastern Chad. Breeding is 
likely to have occurred in northern Mali and adjacent 
areas of Niger but surveys could not be carried out 
due to insecurity. As seasonal rains appear to have 
ended in the northern Sahel, further breeding is 
unlikely except in northeast Chad where ecological 
conditions remain unusually favourable and locusts 
could form a few small groups. No locusts were 
reported in northwest Africa.

The FAO Desert Bulletin is issued monthly, supplemented by
Updates during periods of increased Desert Locust activity, and is 
distributed by e-mail, FAO pouch and airmail by the Locusts and
Other Migratory Pests Group, AGP Division, FAO, 00100 Rome, Italy.
It is also available on the Internet.
Telephone: +39 06 570 52420 (7 days/week, 24 hr)
Facsimile: +39 06 570 55271
E-mail: eclo@fao.org
Internet:  www.fao.org
DLIS: www.fao.org/ag/locusts

No. 348

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Weather & Ecological 
Con di tions in September 2007

Rains declined after the ﬁ rst decade in the 

summer breeding areas of the Sahel in West Africa 
and Sudan and along the Indo-Pakistan border. 
Although vegetation remained green in most 
areas, it was starting to dry out at the end of the 
month. Ecological conditions were favourable in 
the winter breeding areas along both sides of the 
Red Sea, especially in Yemen.
 

In the Western Region, the Inter-Tropical 

Convergence Zone (ITCZ) oscillated between 15N 
and 18N over West Africa during September. During 
the ﬁ rst decade, good rains fell in the summer 
breeding areas in southern and central Mauritania, 
northern Mali, Niger and Chad but less rain fell in 
parts of Tamesna in Mali and Niger. Rains also fell in 
northwest Mauritania (Inchiri and southwest Adrar) 
and the southern portion of Western Sahara as far 
north as Bir Anzarane where breeding conditions 
remained unfavourable, and in southern Algeria along 
the Malian border and west of Tamanrasset and Illizi. 
Very little rainfall occurred after mid-month in the 
Region. Vegetation was green in southern Mauritania 
as well as west of Tidjikja, in parts of Aftout Fai, and 
100 km north of Aioun El Atrous and Oualata, but it 
was starting to dry out by the end of the month in the 
southeast. Vegetation was also green in the wadis of 
the Adrar des Iforas in northern Mali, in parts of the 
central Tamesna in Mali and Niger, in the western 
Air Mountains in Niger, in central Chad to 16N, and 
in southern Sahara of Algeria near Tamanrasset 
and along the Malian border near Bir Bou Mokhtar. 
Vegetation was unusually green in eastern Chad 
as far north as Fada and the Mourdi Depression. In 
northwest Africa, light rains may have fallen at times in 
northwest Libya but vegetation was dry.

In the Central Region, good rains fell during the 
ﬁ rst decade of September in the summer breeding 
areas of the interior of Sudan between Darfur and the 
Red Sea Hills and in the western lowlands in Eritrea. 
Thereafter, rainfall declined in these areas except for 
some showers near Khartoum and in western Eritrea. 
Breeding conditions remained extremely favourable 
in both countries except in the Baiyuda Desert in 
page 2 of   9

northern Sudan and in the northern portion of the 
western lowlands in Eritrea where vegetation was 
starting to dry out. Vegetation was also drying out in 
the summer breeding areas in the interior of Yemen 
except for Wadi Hadhramaut. In the winter breeding 
areas, very little rain fell on the Red Sea coastal 
plains in Sudan and Eritrea but green vegetation 
persisted between Massawa, Eritrea and Port Sudan. 
Good rains fell on the coast between Jizan, Saudi 
Arabia and Bab El Mandeb, Yemen where ecological 
conditions continued to be extremely favourable for 
breeding. Dry conditions prevailed along the coastal 
plains on both sides of the Gulf of Yemen except in 
the larger wadis and at the base of the foothills. Green 
vegetation was present on the plateau of eastern 
Ethiopia and northern Somalia, and in few places on 
the eastern side of the Wahiba Sands in northeast 
Oman.

In the Eastern Region, rainfall associated with 
the monsoon continued during the ﬁ rst decade of 
September along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan 
border. Thereafter, very little rain fell except in a 
limited area between Bikaner, India and Bahawalpur, 
Pakistan as the monsoon retreated south. 
Nevertheless, vegetation remained green in most 
areas in both countries. 

Area Treated

Eritrea 
India   
Oman  
Pakistan 
Yemen 
 

     

  1,100 ha (25-31 August)
     225 ha (1-15 September)
     260 ha (September)
     880 ha (August)
13,317 ha (August, revised)
     230 ha (1-24 September)

Desert Locust
Situation and Forecast

( see also the summary on page 1 )

WESTERN REGION
Mauritania
• SITUATION
During September, small-scale hatching occurred 

in parts of the summer breeding areas from eggs 
laid in August. Isolated solitarious hoppers of all 
instars and adults were present in Brakna and Tagant 
between Magta Lahjar (1730N/1305W) and N’Beika 
(1758N/1215W), in Hodh El Gharbi northeast of 
Aioun El Atrous (1639N/0936W), and in Hodh Ech 
Chargui near Timbedra (1614N/0809W). Isolated 
mature adults were also seen north of Oualata 

(1717N/0701W) and appeared in Trarza near Rkiz 
(1658N/1514W), Boutilimit (1732N/1441W) and 
Aguilal Faye (1827N/1444W).

• FORECAST
Locust numbers will increase slightly from current 

breeding in the south. Unless further rains occur, 
breeding will end and locusts are likely to concentrate 
in vegetation that remains green. Scattered locusts 
are expected to move to the northwest (Inchiri and 
southwest Adrar) and breed on a small-scale if more 
rainfall occurs.

Mali
• SITUATION
During September, surveys could not be carried 

out in the north due to insecurity and no locusts were 
reported.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present and 

breeding north of Tombouctou and in parts of the 
northeast (Timetrine, Tilemsi Valley, Adrar des Iforas 
and Tamesna). Locust numbers will increase slightly 
from current breeding. Unless further rains occur, 
breeding will end and locusts are likely to concentrate 
in vegetation that remains green, mainly in the wadis 
in the Adrar des Iforas.

Niger
• SITUATION
Although no surveys could be carried out because 
of insecurity, there were reports of isolated immature 
and mature solitarious adults in Tamesna between 
Agadez (1700N/0756E) and In Gall (1651N/0701E), 
and near Arlit (1843N/0721E). Further south, 
small-scale breeding occurred southeast of Tanout 
(1505N/0850E) where isolated third and fourth instar 
solitarious hoppers and adults were present.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present and 

breeding in parts of southern and central Tamesna 
and in the western Air Mountains. Locust numbers will 
increase slightly from current breeding there and near 
Tanout. Unless further rains occur, breeding will end 
and locusts are likely to concentrate in vegetation that 
remains green, mainly in the Air Mountains.

Chad
• SITUATION
During September, isolated solitarious mature 

adults were present in Kanem near Salal 
(1448N/1712E), in Biltine north of Iriba (1507N/2215E) 
and in Ennedi between Kalait (1550N/2054E) and 
Fada (1714N/2132E). Small-scale breeding occurred 
near Kalait where low numbers of solitarious hoppers 
of all instars were present. Egg laying was reported 
near Kalait and Fada after mid-month.

• FORECAST
Locust numbers will increase as small-scale 

breeding continues in the northeast (Ennedi and 
Biltine) and to a limited extent in Kanem. As conditions 
start to dry out, locusts are likely to concentrate in 
the remaining green vegetation and could form a few 
small groups.

Senegal
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during September.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 

Côte d’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, 
Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Togo

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Algeria
• SITUATION
During September, no locusts were seen during 

surveys carried out in the southern Sahara west 
of Djanet (2434N/0930E), near Tamanrasset 
(2250N/0528E) and along the Malian border near Bir 
Bou Mokhtar (2120N/0056E).

• FORECAST
Isolated adults may be present in the south near 
Tamanrasset and Bir Bou Mokhtar and breed on a 
small scale in areas of previous rainfall.

Morocco 
• SITUATION
No locusts were reported during September.
• FORECAST
Isolated adults may appear in the extreme south 
of Western Sahara in areas of recent rainfall near 
Ma’Tallah.

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during September.

 • FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

No. 348

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 3 of   9

No. 348

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Tunisia
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during August and September.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

CENTRAL REGION
Sudan
• SITUATION
During September, small-scale breeding occurred 
in Northern Kordofan between Sodiri (1423N/2906E) 
and Umm Saiyala (1426N/3112E) where scattered 
solitarious hoppers and immature and mature adults 
were present at densities up to 300 adults/ha. Isolated 
hoppers were seen in the Baiyuda Desert northwest 
of Khartoum, and scattered mature adults were 
present near Atbara (1742N/3400E) and Kassala 
(1527N/3623E). Groups of mature solitarious, 
transiens and gregarious adults were present at 
densities up to 1,350 adults/ha along the western side 
of the Red Sea Hills from Derudeb (1731N/3607E) to 
Tomala (2002N/3551E) in Wadi Oko and on the Red 
Sea coast in the Tokar Delta and near Port Sudan. 
Some of these adults were laying eggs.

• Forecast
Locust numbers will increase slightly from current 

breeding in North Kordofan, Northern and Kassala 
States and most likely in West and North Darfur. 
Unless further rains occur, breeding will end but there 
is a moderate risk that groups could form along the 
Atbara River and on the western side of the Red Sea 
Hills and breed again. Locust numbers will increase 
in the winter breeding areas along the Red Sea coast 
and in Wadi Oko/Diib as adults arrive from the interior, 
mature and lay eggs. Hatching will occur on the coast 
from October onwards.

Eritrea
• SITUATION
In the summer breeding areas of the western 

lowlands, ground control teams treated 1,100 ha of 
scattered second to ﬁ fth instar solitarious hoppers, 
ﬂ edglings and transiens adults in the western lowlands 
near Kerkebet (1618N/3724E) during the last week of 
August. Only a few solitarious mature adults remained 
a month later.

page 4 of   9

In the winter breeding areas along the Red Sea 
coast, locust numbers continued to increase during 
September between Sheib (1551N/3903E) and 
Karora (1745N/3820E). From the ﬁ rst week onwards, 
scattered solitarious and gregarious adults, at 
densities up to 15,000 adults/ha, laid eggs throughout 
this area, including a few wadis at the foot of the 
escarpment near Naro (1626N/3840) where laying 
had occurred earlier and ﬁ rst to third instar solitarious 
hoppers were already present near crops.

• FORECAST
Locust infestations will decline further in the western 

lowlands but increase on the Red Sea coastal plains. 
Small-scale breeding is expected to extend to most 
coastal areas between Massawa and Karora with 
hatching occurring throughout the forecast period. 
There is a slight risk that hoppers could form a few 
small groups in places where concentrated laying 
occurred. A few small swarms could appear from 
Yemen early in the forecast period.

Ethiopia
• SITUATION
From 21-25 September, at least one immature 

swarm appeared near the Djibouti border and Aysha 
(1045N/4237E) and along the border of northern 
Somalia near Teferi Ber (0947N/4313E). 

• FORECAST
A few small swarms could appear from Yemen early 

in the forecast period near the borders of Djibouti 
and northern Somalia. Some of these could remain 
between Dire Dawa and Jijiga and slowly mature. 
There is a slight risk that a few groups or swarms 
could move from northern Somalia to the Ogaden 
towards the end of the forecast period.

Djibouti
• SITUATION
On 16 September, a medium-density maturing 

swarm arrived on the coast near Tadjourah 
(1147N/4253E) but then departed shortly thereafter.

• FORECAST
A few small swarms could appear from Yemen early 

in the forecast period.

Somalia
• SITUATION
During September, there were several unconﬁ rmed 

reports of swarms on the plateau north of Gebiley 
(0941N/4337E) and Hargeisa (0931N/4402E) at 
the end of the second week. An immature swarm of 
about 80-100 locusts/tree was reported about 500 
km to the east near Iskushuban (1017N/5014E) 
on the 16th. During the following week, immature 
and mature solitarious and gregarious adults were 
scattered throughout the plateau between Boroma 

(0956N/4313E) and Erigavo (1040N/4720E), and 
hoppers were seen in one area. Some of these adults 
may have been leftover from the earlier swarms. On 
the 23rd, an immature swarm was seen ﬂ ying from 
the north at high altitude in the afternoon at Hargeisa 
where it settled nearby and covered about 4 km2 with 
a density of 45 adults/m2. On the 24th, a swarm was 
seen in the northeast near Gardo (0930N/4905E).

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to persist and breed on 

a small scale on the plateau between Boroma and 
Erigavo in areas of recent rainfall. Hatching could 
occur from October onwards. There is a moderate risk 
that a few swarms could arrive on the plateau from 
Yemen early in the forecast period and move east 
towards Erigavo and Gardo where they could mature 
and lay eggs that would hatch during the forecast 
period.

Egypt
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out in 
mid-September along both sides of Lake Nasser near 
Abu Simbel (2219N/3138E), Tushka (2247N/3126E) 
and W. Allaqi. 

• FORECAST
Scattered adults could appear in the southeast on 

the Red Sea coastal plains between Shalatyn and 
Halaib and, if rainfall occurs, lay eggs that could hatch 
by the end of the forecast period.

Saudi Arabia
• SITUATION
During September, scattered mature solitarious and 

transiens adults appeared in several places on the 
southern Red Sea coast near Jizan (1656N/4233E). 
In the Asir Mountains, isolated mature solitarious 
adults were seen in crops near Khamis Mushait 
(1819N/4245E). No locusts were seen on the coast 
near Qunﬁ dah (1909N/4107E) and between Jeddah 
and Rabigh (2247N/3901E), or in the interior.

• FORECAST
Locust numbers will increase as hatching occurs 
on the Red Sea coast near Jizan and perhaps near 
Qunﬁ dah. There is a slight risk that a few swarms 
could arrive in these areas from Yemen in October.

Yemen
• SITUATION
During September, more laying occurred in the 

interior in Wadi Hadhramaut at the beginning of the 
month and near Bayhan (1452N/4545E) towards 
the end. Solitarious, transiens and gregarious 
hopper infestations and mature adult groups were 
present near Ataq (1435N/4649E) and Shabwah 
(1522N/4700E). Groups of mature adults were 

also present between Al Abr (1608N/4714E) and 
Minwakh (1650N/4812E), and in W. Hadhramaut, 
and solitarious mature adults were reported in Al Jawf 
near Al Hazm (1609N/4447E). As vegetation dried 
out in the interior, several immature swarms formed 
during the ﬁ rst week and moved west towards the 
highlands where they were seen between Al Baydha 
(1405N/4542E) and Ad Dali (1341N/4443E). Although 
one swarm was seen west of Sana’a, adult groups 
and swarms did not reach the Red Sea coast but 
probably dispersed within the central and southern 
highlands. Immature swarms also moved south from 
Hadhramaut towards the Gulf of Aden coast where 
they were seen near Mukalla (1431N/4908E), Ahwar 
(1333N/4644E), Aden (1250N/4503E) and Bab El 
Mandab during the second and third weeks. During 
the second week, ﬁ shermen near Aden saw large 
numbers of dead immature gregarious adults off 
the coast and washed up on shore, indicating that 
some swarms were crossing the sea. Egg laying was 
reported on the plains west of Aden on the 20th. By 
the end of the month, infestations had declined in the 
interior. Control operations treated 230 ha from 1-26 
September.

On the Red Sea coastal plains, hatching 

commenced in several places between Bayt Al Faqih 
(1430N/4317E) and the Saudi Arabian border near 
Midi (1619N/4248E) and scattered solitarious hoppers 
and adults were present. By the end of the month, 
hoppers had formed very small low-density bands 
near Suq Abs (1600N/4312E) and groups at densities 
of 4-25 hoppers/m2 south of Hodeidah. Adult groups 
laid eggs throughout the month.

• FORECAST
Hatching is expected to occur in the interior near 

Bayhan early in the forecast period and hoppers 
could form small groups and bands. A few more adult 
groups and swarms could form from the remaining 
infestations in the interior and move towards the 
southern coast or into the central highlands. On the 
southern coast, residual populations could breed 
near Aden with hatching and limited band formation 
from October onwards. On the Red Sea coast, locust 
numbers will increase as breeding continues and 
extends to other areas between Bab El Mandeb and 
Midi. Small hopper groups, bands and adult groups 
are likely to form in places. There is a moderate risk 
that a few adult groups or swarms could arrive on the 
Tihama in October.

 

No. 348

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 5 of   9

No. 348

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Oman
• SITUATION
In early September, local breeding continued 

in the Sharqiya region of the northeast where late 
instar solitarious and transiens hoppers mixed with 
a few immature solitarious adults were present on 
the edge of the Wahiba Sands mainly between 
Ibra (2243N/5831E) and the coast. By the second 
week, locust numbers had increased slightly and 
some immature adults were forming small groups. 
At the end of the month, control teams treated 260 
ha of solitarious and transiens hopper groups of all 
instars mixed with solitarious adults in Wadi Al Ameiri 
(2141N/5613E) in Dhahira region. No locusts were 
reported in the south near Yemen or elsewhere in the 
country.

• FORECAST
Low numbers of locusts may persist in Sharqiya in 

any areas that remain green. 

southeast of Rahimyar Khan (2822N/7020E). In the 
Uthal area, solitarious adult densities increased to 
1,000 adults/ha.

• FORECAST
Breeding will end along the border with India and 

locust numbers will decline in Cholistan and Khairpur 
as adults leave the area and move west towards 
Baluchistan. Low numbers of locusts may persist in 
the Uthal area.

India
• SITUATION
During September, low numbers of solitarious 

mature adults were present in a few places of 
Rajasthan between Phalodi (2706N/7222E) and 
Bikaner (2801N/7322E) where local breeding had 
occurred in August. Isolated mature adults were 
also seen at one place in northwest Gujarat. Control 
operations were undertaken during the second week 
at 13 places near Phalodi against solitarious and 
transiens mature adults, treating 225 ha.

• FORECAST
Breeding will end in Rajasthan and locust numbers 

are expected to decline as most of the adults move 
towards the west. Some adults could persist and 
concentrate in those areas that remain green and 
perhaps form a few small groups.

Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 

Lebanon, Palestine, Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, 
UAE and Uganda

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Afghanistan
• SITUATION
No reports received.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

EASTERN REGION
Iran
• SITUATION
No reports were received during September.
• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding may have occurred in 

September on the southeast coast near Chabahar. 
If so, locusts may persist in those areas that remain 
green, especially on the Vashnum Plains.

Pakistan
• SITUATION
A late report indicated that control teams treated 

880 ha of solitarious ﬁ rst to fourth instar hoppers 
west of Karachi near Uthal (2548N/6637E) in August. 
During the second half of the month, scattered 
immature and mature adults at densities up to 300 
adults/ha persisted at 39 places near the Indian 
border in Khairpur and Cholistan.

During September, the number of places with 

locusts declined and only scattered solitarious adults 
and a few hoppers persisted near the Indian border 

page 6 of   9

Announcements

Locust reporting. During recession periods, 

countries should report at least once/month and send 
RAMSES data with a brief interpretation. During 
caution (yellow) periods, locust outbreaks, upsurges 
and plagues, RAMSES output ﬁ les with a brief 
interpretation should be sent twice/week within 48 
hours of the last survey. Affected countries are also 
encouraged to prepare decadal bulletins summarizing 
the situation. All information should be sent by e-mail 
to the FAO/ECLO Desert Locust Information Service 
(eclo@fao.org). Information received by the end of 
the month will be included in the FAO Desert Locust 
Bulletin for the current month; otherwise, it will not 
appear until the following month. Reports should be 
sent even if no locusts were found or if no surveys 
were conducted.

eLocust2. FAO has developed a new version 

2007 events. The following meetings are 

of eLocust in collaboration with affected countries 
and the French Space Agency (CNES/Novacom) 
that allows ﬁ eld ofﬁ cers to enter survey and control 
data directly in the ﬁ eld and transmit it in real time 
via satellite to their national locust centre. Data 
can also be downloaded to a PC and visualized on 
GoogleEarth. The software is in both English and 
French. FAO DLIS has distributed units to nearly all of 
the frontline countries. Photos and more information 
are available at: www.fao.org/ag/locusts/en/activ/DLIS/
index.html

Desert Locust warning levels. A colour-coded 

scheme indicates the seriousness of the current 
Desert Locust situation: green for calm, yellow for 
caution, orange for threat and red for danger. The 
scheme is applied to the Locust Watch web page and 
to the monthly bulletin’s header. The levels indicate 
the perceived risk or threat of current Desert Locust 
infestations to crops and appropriate actions are 
suggested for each level.

scheduled:
•   CLCPRO. 4th Executive Committee (18-19 
October) and 4th Session (22-26 October), 
Bamako (Mali)

•   EMPRES/WR. RAMSES and eLocust2 evaluation 

workshop (10-12 November), Algiers (Algeria)
•   EMPRES/WR. 6th Liaison Ofﬁ cers Meeting (26-
30 November) and 3rd Steering Committee (3-4 
December), Agadir (Morocco)

Glossary of terms

The following special terms are used in the Desert 

Locust Bulletin when reporting locusts:

NON-GREGARIOUS ADULTS AND HOPPERS
ISOLATED   (FEW) 

•  very few present and no mu tu al reaction occurring;
•  0 - 1 adult/400 m foot transect (or less than 25/ha). 

EMPRES/CRC website. Detailed information 

SCATTERED  (SOME, LOW NUMBERS) 

on EMPRES/CR and the FAO Central Region 
Commission as well as member country proﬁ les can 
be found on the new EMPRES/CRC website at: www.
crc-empres.org.

MODIS imagery. Columbia University’s 

International Research Institute for Climate and 
Society (IRI) provides 16-day 250-metre resolution 
MODIS imagery for monitoring ecological conditions 
in the Desert Locust recession area, in addition 
to the daily rainfall estimates already available. 
These products can be downloaded in different 
formats suitable for GIS at: http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.
edu/maproom/.Food_Security/.Locusts/index.html. 
Comments and questions can be addressed to Pietro 
Ceccato (pceccato@iri.columbia.edu). 

•  enough present for mutual reaction to be possible 

but no ground or basking groups seen;

•  1 - 20 adults/400 m foot transect (or 25 - 500/ha).  

GROUP 

•  forming ground or basking groups;
•  20+ adults/400 m foot transect (or 500+/ha).

ADULT SWARM AND HOPPER BAND SIZES
VERY SMALL

•  swarm: less than 1 km2 

• band: 1 - 25 m2

SMALL

•  swarm: 1 - 10 km2 

• band: 25 - 2,500 m2

MEDIUM

•  swarm: 10 - 100 km2  

• band: 2,500 m2 - 10 ha

LARGE

•  swarm: 100 - 500 km2 

• band: 10 - 50 ha

VERY LARGE

New information on Locust Watch. New 

•  swarm: 500+ km2 

• band: 50+ ha

information has been added to the Locust Group’s 
web page, Locust Watch (www.fao.org/ag/locusts):
•   Locust situation. Several updates during 

September (home page and in Archives section)
•   EMPRES/CR. Report of 4th ad-hoc Emergency 

RAINFALL
LIGHT

•  1 - 20 mm of rainfall.

MODERATE

prevention consultation (Publications section)

•  21 - 50 mm of rainfall.

•   FAO Technical Series. No. 34 – Review of the 
efﬁ cacy of Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum 
(Publications section)

•   Guidelines. Metarhizium ﬁ eld trials (Publications 

section)

Links to the above information can be found in the 
Latest Additions section on Locust Watch.

No. 348

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 7 of   9

No. 348

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

YELLOW

•  Caution. Potential threat to crops. Increased 

vigilance is required; control operations may be 
needed.
RED

•  Danger. Signiﬁ cant threat to crops. Intensive survey 

and control operations must be undertaken.

HEAVY

•  more than 50 mm of rainfall.

REGIONS
WESTERN

•  locust-affected countries in West and North-West 

Africa: Algeria, Chad, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, 
Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Tunisia; during plagues 
only: Burkino Faso, Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea 
and Guinea-Bissau.
CENTRAL

•  locust-affected countries along the Red Sea: 

Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Oman, Saudi 
Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen; during plagues 
only: Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, UAE and Uganda.
EASTERN

•  locust-affected countries in South-West Asia: 

Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan.

OTHER REPORTING TERMS
BREEDING

• the process of reproduction from copulation to   

ﬂ edg ing.
SUMMER RAINS AND BREEDING
•  July - September/October
WINTER RAINS AND BREEDING

•  October - January/February

SPRING RAINS AND BREEDING

•  February - June/July

DECLINE

•  a period characterised by breeding failure and/or 

suc cess ful control leading to the dissociation of 
swarm ing populations and the onset of recessions; 
can be regional or major.
OUTBREAK

•  a marked increase in locust numbers due to 

con cen tra tion, multiplication and gregarisation 
which, unless checked, can lead to the formation of 
hopper bands and swarms.
UPSURGE

•  a period following a recession marked initially 

by a very large increase in locust numbers and 
con tem po ra ne ous outbreaks followed by the 
production of two or more successive seasons of 
transient-to- gre gar i ous breeding in complimentary 
seasonal breed ing areas in the same or 
neighbouring Desert Lo cust regions.
PLAGUE

•  a period of one or more years of widespread and 
heavy infestations, the majority of which occur as 
bands or swarms. A major plague exists when two 
or more regions are affected simultaneously.
RECESSION

•  period without widespread and heavy infestations 

by swarms.
REMISSION

•  period of deep recession marked by the complete 

absence of gregarious populations.

WARNING LEVELS 
GREEN

•  Calm. No threat to crops. Maintain regular surveys 

and monitoring.

page 8 of   9

Desert  Locust  Summary
Criquet  pèlerin  -  Situation  résumée

348

10

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

30

20

30

20

10

FORECAST  TO:
PREVISION  AU:
favourable breeding conditions
conditions favourables à la reproduction

15.11.07

LIKELY

PROBABLE

POSSIBLE
POSSIBLE

10

20

30

40

major swarm(s)
essaim(s) important(s)

minor swarm(s)
essaim(s) limité(s)

non swarming adults
adultes non essaimant

SITUATION:

Sept 2007
sept 2007

immature adults
adultes immatures
mature or partly mature adults
adultes matures ou partiellement matures
adults, maturity unknown
adultes, maturité inconnue
egg laying or eggs
pontes ou œufs
hoppers
larves
hoppers & adults (combined symbol example)
larves et adultes (exemple symboles combinés)

swarms or

hopper bands
essaims ou

bandes larvaires

adults / hoppers
adultes / larves
in

density

groups

en

groupes

low/unknown

densité

faible/inconnue

