D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

warning level: CAUTION (Central Region)

FAO Emergency Centre for Locust Op er a tions

General Situation during October 2007
Forecast until mid-December 2007

No. 349

(5 November 2007) 

A Desert Locust outbreak developed during 

Central Region. Locust numbers increased in 

the summer breeding areas in Sudan where small 
hopper bands and a few swarms formed in the north 
during October. Although aerial and ground control 
operations were undertaken, small adult groups 
and swarms are likely to form in the interior during 
November and move to the Red Sea coastal plains 
where they will rapidly mature and lay eggs. Hatching 
and band formation will occur by mid-December. 
Although the outbreak ended in the interior of Yemen, 
breeding on the Red Sea coast gave rise to a few 
hopper bands, and more breeding is expected during 
the forecast period. Limited breeding will take place 
along the coast in southeast Egypt, northern Eritrea 
and on the coast of Saudi Arabia where a few locusts 
were present in October. Small to moderate scale 
breeding is likely to occur in the Ogaden in eastern 
Ethiopia where several swarms arrived from northern 
Somalia. Limited ground control operations were 
carried out in Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia and Yemen in 
October.

Eastern Region. Locust numbers declined in the 
summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-
Pakistan border during October, and a few adults 
persisted on the coast in southeastern Iran. No 
signiﬁ cant developments are expected in the Region 
during the forecast period. 

October in northern Sudan where hopper bands 
and small swarms formed. A few hoppers bands 
also formed on the Red Sea coast in Sudan and 
Yemen. This winter will be very important as there 
is a strong possibility that locust numbers will 
increase signiﬁ cantly on the Red Sea coast in 
Sudan and, to a lesser extent, in Yemen during 
November and December. All efforts should be 
made to monitor this developing and potentially 
dangerous situation closely and carefully, and 
to undertake control as necessary. In the Horn 
of Africa, a few swarms moved from northern 
Somalia to eastern Ethiopia where they will 
probably lay eggs in November. There is a 
very low risk that some locusts could reach 
northeastern Kenya. 

Western Region. The situation continued to remain 

calm during October. Small-scale breeding occurred 
in parts of western and central Mauritania, northern 
Niger and northeast Chad where locust numbers 
increased slightly. A similar situation is expected in 
northern Mali but surveys could not be carried out due 
to insecurity. During the forecast period, locusts could 
concentrate, increase in number and form a few small 
groups as vegetation dries out in western Mauritania, 
on the Tamesna Plains in Niger and in northeast 
Chad. No locusts were reported in northwest Africa 
and no signiﬁ cant developments are expected.

The FAO Desert Bulletin is issued monthly, supplemented by
Updates during periods of increased Desert Locust activity, and is 
distributed by e-mail, FAO pouch and airmail by the Locusts and
Other Migratory Pests Group, AGP Division, FAO, 00153 Rome, Italy.
It is also available on the Internet.
Telephone: +39 06 570 52420 (7 days/week, 24 hr)
Facsimile: +39 06 570 55271
E-mail: eclo@fao.org
Internet:  www.fao.org
DLIS: www.fao.org/ag/locusts

No. 349

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Weather & Ecological 
Con di tions in October 2007

Vegetation dried out during October in the 

summer breeding areas of the Sahel in West Africa 
and Sudan. Light rains along the Red Sea coast 
in Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Yemen maintained 
favourable ecological conditions in the winter 
breeding areas. Dry weather prevailed in the 
Eastern Region.
 

In the Western Region, the Inter-Tropical 

Convergence Zone (ITCZ) began its southward retreat 
where it remained below 15N over West Africa during 
October. Consequently, only light rains fell at times, 
mainly in southern Mauritania in early October. In 
Mauritania, annual vegetation dried out in the south 
but remained green in the southwest and west where 
conditions were favourable for breeding. Similarly, 
annual vegetation was drying out in northern Mali, 
Niger and Chad. Ecological conditions remained 
favourable for breeding in southern Algeria near the 
Hoggar Mountains and along the Malian border. In 
Northwest Africa, light rains associated with eastward-
moving Mediterranean depressions fell along the 
southern side of the Atlas Mountains in Morocco and, 
to a lesser extent, in Algeria. 

In the Central Region, very little rain fell during 

October in the summer breeding areas while showers 
occurred in some areas along the Red Sea coastal 
plains. In the winter breeding areas, light to moderate 
rains fell in the Red Sea Hills from southeastern Egypt 
to the Sudanese/Eritrean border, including parts of the 
coast near the Egyptian border and in the Tokar Delta 
in Sudan. Consequently, vegetation was becoming 
green or already green, and breeding conditions were 
favourable in the Tokar Delta and improving in the 
other areas. In Eritrea, ecological conditions were not 
favourable on the coast as no rain fell except for some 
showers in the north on the 29th between Mehimet 
and the Sudanese border. Light to moderate rains fell 
along the Red Sea coast between Jizan, Saudi Arabia 
and Mocha, Yemen where ecological conditions 
continued to be favourable for breeding. In the Horn 
of Africa, light rains fell on the plateau in northwest 
Somalia in early October but vegetation remained dry. 
Light rain may have also fallen in parts of the Ogaden 
page 2 of   9

in eastern Ethiopia where breeding conditions could 
improve if more rains occur.

In the Eastern Region, dry conditions prevailed 
throughout October in the summer breeding areas 
along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. No rains 
fell and vegetation was drying out.

Area Treated

Egypt 
Ethiopia 
India 
Saudi Arabia 
Sudan 
Yemen 
 

  8 ha (October)
35 ha (1-8 October)
21 ha (16-30 September)
15 ha (October)

11,212 ha (1-29 October)

10 ha (25-30 September)
384 ha (1-10 October)

Desert Locust
Situation and Forecast

( see also the summary on page 1 )

WESTERN REGION
Mauritania
• SITUATION
Small-scale breeding occurred during October 

in parts of Tagant, northern Brakna, Trarza and 
southwest Adrar. In these areas, isolated and 
scattered solitarious hoppers and immature and 
mature solitarious adults were present. Egg laying and 
hatching were reported up until the end of the month 
in southwest Adrar, Tagant and northern Brakna, 
causing locust numbers to increase slightly, up to 400 
hoppers/site.
• FORECAST
If rains fall in the northwest (Inchiri and southwest 

Adrar) and the north (southern Tiris-Zemmour), 
small-scale breeding could cause locust numbers to 
increase slightly.

Mali
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during October.

• FORECAST
Low numbers of locusts may be present and could 
persist in those areas that remain green in the Adrar 
des Iforas.

Niger
• SITUATION
Although surveys could not be carried out during 

October, scattered third to ﬁ fth instar solitarious 

hoppers and immature adults were reported from one 
place northwest of Agadez (1700N/0756E) on the 26th 
and groups of immature solitarious adults were seen 
15 km east of Arlit (1843N/0721E) on the 30th. 

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present and 
breeding in parts of Tamesna, in the western Air 
Mountains and near Tanout. Consequently, locusts 
could increase, concentrate and form small groups.

Morocco 
• SITUATION
No locusts were reported during September.
• FORECAST
Isolated adults may appear in the extreme south of 

Western Sahara, especially if rainfall occurs.

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

Chad
• SITUATION
During September, isolated solitarious mature 

reported during October.

 • FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

adults were present in Kanem near Salal 
(1448N/1712E), in Biltine north of Iriba (1507N/2215E) 
and in Ennedi between Kalait (1550N/2054E) and 
Fada (1714N/2132E). Small-scale breeding occurred 
near Kalait where low numbers of solitarious hoppers 
of all instars were present. Egg laying was reported 
near Kalait and Fada after mid-month.

During the ﬁ rst half of October, scattered 

immature and mature solitarious adults, at densities 
up to 3,700 adults/ha, persisted in Kanem near 
Salal (1448N/1712E) and in Ennedi near Kalait 
(1550N/2054E) and Fada (1714N/2132E). Some 
adults were seen copulating near Fada early in the 
month.

• FORECAST
Locust numbers are expected to increase in the 
Fada area as hatching occurs early in the forecast 
period. Elsewhere, locusts are likely to concentrate 
and could form small groups as vegetation continues 
to dry out. 

Senegal
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during October.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 

Côte d’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, 
Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Togo

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Algeria
• SITUATION
During October, isolated solitarious adults were 

present in the extreme south along the Malian border 
near Bir Bou Mokhtar (2120N/0056E).

• FORECAST
Low numbers of locusts may persist in the south 

near Tamanrasset and Bir Bou Mokhtar but breeding 
is unlikely unless additional rainfall occurs.

Tunisia
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during October.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

CENTRAL REGION
Sudan
• SITUATION
During the ﬁ rst week of October, a few small 

swarms laid eggs and hatching occurred in 
the northern Baiyuda Desert near Merowe 
(1830N/3149E). Throughout the month, hopper 
bands formed and groups of immature and mature 
adults were present in the Baiyuda between Merowe 
and Shendi (1641N/3322E), along the Atbara 
River, northwest of Kassala (1527N/3623E), and on 
the western side of the Red Sea Hills near Haiya 
(1820N/3621E) and in Wadi Oko near Tomala 
(2002N/3551E). The bands were mainly small and 
consisted of all instars at densities up to 50 hoppers/
m2. By the end of the month, most of the bands were 
ﬂ edging. From the 18th onwards, small immature and 
mature swarms were seen in the Baiyuda and near 
Kassala and Haiya. Some of these swarms near 
Kassala laid eggs. 

In the winter breeding areas, groups of immature 
and mature solitarious and gregarious adults were 
present on the Red Sea coast in the Tokar Delta at 
densities up to 2,000 adults/ha, and in the northern 
subcoastal areas along Wadi Diib at densities up to 
650 adults/ha. In the Tokar Delta, egg laying occurred 
throughout the month. Solitarious, transiens and 
gregarious hoppers formed small groups at densities 

No. 349

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 3 of   9

No. 349

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

up to 12 hoppers/m2 and, by the last week of the 
month, a few small late instar hopper bands had 
formed.

Ground control teams treated 11,212 ha during 

October of which 418 ha were in the Tokar Delta and 
112 ha were with Metarhizium. Some aerial control 
was carried out near Kassala.

• Forecast
Small adult groups and swarms are likely to form in 
the Baiyuda Desert, along the Atbara River and west 
of the Red Sea Hills. These locusts are expected to 
move to the Red Sea coastal plains where they will 
rapidly mature and lay eggs, primarily in the Tokar 
Delta and surrounding coastal plains but some could 
also reach Wadi Diib in the north. Hatching and the 
formation of groups and perhaps small bands are 
expected to take place in Tokar and could occur near 
Kassala where swarms were seen laying eggs in 
October.

seen in late September. In the Ogaden, egg laying 
occurred north of Warder (0658N/4520E) and small 
medium-density second instar hopper bands were 
reported on the 27th at two places. From about the 
23rd onwards, there were several reports of mature 
swarms arriving in the eastern Ogaden from adjacent 
areas of northern Somalia. These swarms moved west 
and south and, by the end of the month, a few swarms 
had reached the Fik area (0808N/4218E) in the west 
and south of Kebri Dehar (0644N/4416E) near Kelafo 
(0524N/4410E) and the Shabele River. Survey efforts 
were hampered by insecurity in the region.

In the Afar region, ground control teams treated 

35 ha of hoppers that gregarized at Buldugum 
(1155N/4129E) in early October.

• FORECAST
Small to moderate scale breeding is expected to 

occur in areas of recent rainfall in the Ogaden, giving 
rise to hopper groups and bands that may form small 
adult groups and swarms by the end of the forecast 
period. 

Djibouti
• SITUATION
No reports were received during October.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Eritrea
• SITUATION
During October, locust numbers declined on the 

Somalia
• SITUATION
During the last week of September, a swarm 

Red Sea coastal plains because of unfavourable 
breeding conditions. Only low numbers of solitarious 
mature adults persisted in a few places near 
Shelshela (1553N/3906E), Naro (1626N/3840) and 
Karora (1745N/3820E). Small-scale breeding occurred 
in crops near Naro where scattered second and third 
instar solitarious hoppers were seen at mid-month, 
and adults were copulating in the north near Mehimet 
(1723N/3833E) during the last week. No locusts were 
seen between Massawa (1537N/3928E) and Tio 
(1441N/4057E) during surveys on 9-13 October.

• FORECAST
Small-scale hatching will take place and locust 

numbers will increase slightly on the Red Sea coast 
between Massawa and Karora if rainfall occurs during 
the forecast period. There is a slight risk of adult 
groups arriving in the north from adjacent coastal 
areas in Sudan.

Ethiopia
• SITUATION
During the ﬁ rst decade of October, isolated 

immature solitarious adults persisted between Dire 
Dawa (0935N/4150E) and the borders of Djibouti and 
northern Somalia where about three swarms were 
page 4 of   9

near Hargeisa was seen moving southeast towards 
adjacent areas in eastern Ethiopia. Immature and 
mature solitarious adults were present at a few places 
on the coastal plains west of Berbera (1028N/4502E).

In early October, groups of mature adults were 
seen in the northeast near Gardo (0930N/4905E). 
During the second week, there were several reports of 
locusts further south between Garowe (0824N/4828E) 
and Galkayo (0642N/4725E). Some of these were 
seen crossing into eastern Ethiopia. Shortly after 
mid-month, there were reports of several swarms 
southeast of Burao (0931N/4533E) along the border 
with Ethiopia. The situation was reported to be calm at 
the end of the month.

• FORECAST
Unless further rainfall occurs, only scattered adults 

are likely to remain in some areas on the plateau 
between Boroma and Gardo, and the northwest 
coastal plains

Kenya
• FORECAST
There is a very low risk that a few small adult 

groups or swarms could reach the northern part of 
the North Eastern Province from adjacent areas of 

southeastern Ethiopia and eventually lay eggs in 
areas of recent rainfall.

Egypt
• SITUATION
During October, scattered solitarious mature 

adults were present on the Red Sea coastal plains 
near Abu Ramad (2224N/3624E) and Wadi Diib. At 
the end of the month, some adults were copulating. 
Isolated immature solitarious adults were present 
along the western side of Lake Nasser near Tushka 
(2247N/3126E), and ground teams treated 8 ha of 
solitarious and transiens mature adult groups.

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is likely to occur in the 

southeast on the coastal plains between Abu Ramad 
and Halaib and in Wadi Diib. Isolated adults may 
persist near Lake Nasser.

Saudi Arabia
• SITUATION
During October, isolated immature and mature 

solitarious adults were present on the Red Sea coast 
near Jizan (1656N/4233E), Qunﬁ dah (1909N/4107E), 
Rabigh (2247N/3901E) and Yenbo (2405N/3802E). 
Ground teams treated 15 ha near Yenbo and an 
infestation of adults at densities of 200-500 adults/ha 
near Medina. No locusts were reported in the interior.

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is likely to occur along parts 

of the Red Sea coast, especially in areas of recent 
rainfall or where rains fall during the forecast period, 
causing locust numbers to increase slightly.

Yemen
• SITUATION
During October, small locust infestations were 

present along the coastal plains of the Red Sea and 
Gulf of Aden. Small-scale breeding continued in 
the north near Suq Abs (1600N/4312E) and on the 
central plains between Hodeidah and Bayt Al Faqih 
(1430N/4317E). Hoppers of all instars formed a few 
small bands in the north and small groups at densities 
up to 20 hoppers/m2 on the central coast. Ground 
control treated 384 ha on 1-10 October. Solitarious 
ﬂ edglings, immature and mature adults at densities 
less than 1,000 adults/ha were also present in both 
areas. Some of the adults were copulating early in the 
month. 

Immature and mature solitarious adults, at densities 

less than 500 adults/ha, were scattered along the 
Aden coast from west of Aden to east of Zinjibar 
(1306N/4523E). Most of the locusts were concentrated 
in the Am Rija (1302N/4434E) area, and some were 
transiens in appearance. A few adults were seen 
copulating early in the month, hatching occurred 

during the second half of the month and scattered ﬁ rst 
and second instar solitarious hoppers were present at 
densities of 2 hopper/m2 during the last week.

In the summer breeding areas of the interior, 

transiens and gregarious mature adults were present 
near Minwakh (1650N/4812E) during the ﬁ rst week 
of October. Thereafter, no further surveys were 
conducted.

• FORECAST
Small groups, hopper bands and perhaps a few 
very small swarms could form in some areas along 
the Red Sea coastal plains. If more rains fall, another 
generation of breeding will occur that would cause 
locust numbers to increase further. On the Gulf of 
Aden coast, breeding could continue if more rains fall; 
otherwise, only low numbers of locusts are likely to 
persist.

 
Oman
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out 

on the northern Batinah coast and on the Musandam 
Peninsula during October.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, 

Palestine, Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, UAE and 
Uganda

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

EASTERN REGION
Iran
• SITUATION
A late report indicated that scattered mature 

solitarious adults, at densities up to 500 adults/ha, 
were present during the last week of September 
along the southeastern coast between Chabahar 
(2517N/6036E) and the Pakistani border. No 
locusts were seen in the interior between Kahnuj 
(2757N/5742E) and Bampur (2711N/6028E).

During October, isolated mature solitarious adults 
persisted at a few places near Chabahar. No locusts 
were seen on the Persian Gulf coast west of Bander-e 
Lengheh (2634N/5452E).

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

No. 349

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 5 of   9

No. 349

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Pakistan
• SITUATION
During October, scattered immature and mature 

adults at densities up to 350 adults/ha persisted 
near the Indian border southeast of Rahimyar Khan 
(2822N/7020E). By the end of the month, locust 
numbers were declining.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

India
• SITUATION
During the last half of September, ground teams 
treated 21 ha of ﬁ rst to third instar hoppers west of 
Jodhpur near Phalodi (2706N/7222E).

No locusts were seen during surveys carried out in 

Gujarat during the ﬁ rst half of October.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Afghanistan
• SITUATION
No reports received.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Announcements

Locust reporting. During recession periods, 

countries should report at least once/month and send 
RAMSES data with a brief interpretation. During 
caution (yellow) periods, locust outbreaks, upsurges 
and plagues, RAMSES output ﬁ les with a brief 
interpretation should be sent twice/week within 48 
hours of the last survey. Affected countries are also 
encouraged to prepare decadal bulletins summarizing 
the situation. All information should be sent by e-mail 
to the FAO/ECLO Desert Locust Information Service 
(eclo@fao.org). Information received by the end of 
the month will be included in the FAO Desert Locust 
Bulletin for the current month; otherwise, it will not 
appear until the following month. Reports should be 
sent even if no locusts were found or if no surveys 
were conducted.

eLocust2. FAO has developed a new version 

of eLocust in collaboration with affected countries 

page 6 of   9

and the French Space Agency (CNES/Novacom) 
that allows ﬁ eld ofﬁ cers to enter survey and control 
data directly in the ﬁ eld and transmit it in real time 
via satellite to their national locust centre. Data 
can also be downloaded to a PC and visualized on 
GoogleEarth. The software is in both English and 
French. FAO DLIS has distributed units to nearly all of 
the frontline countries. Photos and more information 
are available at: www.fao.org/ag/locusts/en/activ/DLIS/
index.html

Desert Locust warning levels. A colour-coded 

scheme indicates the seriousness of the current 
Desert Locust situation: green for calm, yellow for 
caution, orange for threat and red for danger. The 
scheme is applied to the Locust Watch web page and 
to the monthly bulletin’s header. The levels indicate 
the perceived risk or threat of current Desert Locust 
infestations to crops and appropriate actions are 
suggested for each level.

EMPRES/CRC website. Detailed information 

on EMPRES/CR and the FAO Central Region 
Commission as well as member country proﬁ les can 
be found on the new EMPRES/CRC website at: www.
crc-empres.org.

MODIS imagery. Columbia University’s 

International Research Institute for Climate and 
Society (IRI) has started to provide 16-day 250-metre 
resolution MODIS imagery for monitoring ecological 
conditions in the Desert Locust recession area, 
in addition to the daily rainfall estimates already 
available. These products can be downloaded in 
different formats suitable for GIS at: http://iridl.ldeo.
columbia.edu/maproom/.Food_Security/.Locusts/
index.html. Comments and questions can be 
addressed to Pietro Ceccato (pceccato@iri.columbia.
edu). 

New information on Locust Watch. DLIS 

launched a new initiative in October called Desert 
Locust e-info news as a means of keeping everyone 
informed on a weekly basis of new information on the 
Locust Group’s web page, Locust Watch (www.fao.
org/ag/locusts). The latest additions are:
• 

Several updates during 

Locust situation. 
October (home page and in Archives section)
FAO Technical Series.
 No. 34 – Review of the 
efﬁ cacy of Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum 
(Publications section)
Guidelines.
section)

 Metarhizium ﬁ eld trials (Publications 

• 

• 

Links to the above information can be found in the 
Latest Additions section on Locust Watch.

2007 events. The following meetings are 

scheduled:
• 

. 6th Liaison Ofﬁ cers Meeting (26-30 

EMPRES/WR
November) and 3rd Steering Committee (3-4 
December), Agadir (Morocco)
EMPRES/WR
workshop (6-8 December), Agadir (Morocco)

• 

. RAMSES and eLocust2 evaluation 

Glossary of terms

The following special terms are used in the Desert 

Locust Bulletin when reporting locusts:

NON-GREGARIOUS ADULTS AND HOPPERS
ISOLATED   (FEW) 

•  very few present and no mu tu al reaction occurring;
•  0 - 1 adult/400 m foot transect (or less than 25/ha). 

SCATTERED  (SOME, LOW NUMBERS) 

•  enough present for mutual reaction to be possible 

but no ground or basking groups seen;

•  1 - 20 adults/400 m foot transect (or 25 - 500/ha).  

GROUP 

•  forming ground or basking groups;
•  20+ adults/400 m foot transect (or 500+/ha).

ADULT SWARM AND HOPPER BAND SIZES
VERY SMALL

•  swarm: less than 1 km2 

• band: 1 - 25 m2

SMALL

•  swarm: 1 - 10 km2 

• band: 25 - 2,500 m2

MEDIUM

•  swarm: 10 - 100 km2  

• band: 2,500 m2 - 10 ha

LARGE

•  swarm: 100 - 500 km2 

• band: 10 - 50 ha

VERY LARGE

•  swarm: 500+ km2 

• band: 50+ ha

RAINFALL
LIGHT

•  1 - 20 mm of rainfall.

MODERATE

•  21 - 50 mm of rainfall.

HEAVY

•  more than 50 mm of rainfall.

OTHER REPORTING TERMS
BREEDING

• the process of reproduction from copulation to   

ﬂ edg ing.
SUMMER RAINS AND BREEDING
•  July - September/October
WINTER RAINS AND BREEDING

•  October - January/February

SPRING RAINS AND BREEDING

•  February - June/July

DECLINE

•  a period characterised by breeding failure and/or 

suc cess ful control leading to the dissociation of 
swarm ing populations and the onset of recessions; 
can be regional or major.
OUTBREAK

•  a marked increase in locust numbers due to 

con cen tra tion, multiplication and gregarisation 
which, unless checked, can lead to the formation of 
hopper bands and swarms.
UPSURGE

•  a period following a recession marked initially 

by a very large increase in locust numbers and 
con tem po ra ne ous outbreaks followed by the 
production of two or more successive seasons of 
transient-to- gre gar i ous breeding in complimentary 
seasonal breed ing areas in the same or 
neighbouring Desert Lo cust regions.
PLAGUE

•  a period of one or more years of widespread and 
heavy infestations, the majority of which occur as 
bands or swarms. A major plague exists when two 
or more regions are affected simultaneously.
RECESSION

•  period without widespread and heavy infestations 

by swarms.
REMISSION

•  period of deep recession marked by the complete 

absence of gregarious populations.

WARNING LEVELS 
GREEN

•  Calm. No threat to crops. Maintain regular surveys 

and monitoring.
YELLOW

•  Caution. Potential threat to crops. Increased 

vigilance is required; control operations may be 
needed.
ORANGE

•  Threat. Threat to crops. Survey and control 

operations must be undertaken.
RED

•  Danger. Signiﬁ cant threat to crops. Intensive survey 

and control operations must be undertaken.

No. 349

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 7 of   9

No. 349

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

REGIONS
WESTERN

•  locust-affected countries in West and North-West 

Africa: Algeria, Chad, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, 
Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Tunisia; during plagues 
only: Burkino Faso, Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea 
and Guinea-Bissau.
CENTRAL

•  locust-affected countries along the Red Sea: 

Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Oman, Saudi 
Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen; during plagues 
only: Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, UAE and Uganda.
EASTERN

•  locust-affected countries in South-West Asia: 

Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan.

page 8 of   9

Desert  Locust  Summary
Criquet  pèlerin  -  Situation  résumée

349

10

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

30

20

30

20

10

FORECAST  TO:
PREVISION  AU:
favourable breeding conditions
conditions favourables à la reproduction

15.12.07

LIKELY

PROBABLE

POSSIBLE
POSSIBLE

10

20

30

40

major swarm(s)
essaim(s) important(s)

minor swarm(s)
essaim(s) limité(s)

non swarming adults
adultes non essaimant

SITUATION:
October 2007
octobre 2007

immature adults
adultes immatures
mature or partly mature adults
adultes matures ou partiellement matures
adults, maturity unknown
adultes, maturité inconnue
egg laying or eggs
pontes ou œufs
hoppers
larves
hoppers & adults (combined symbol example)
larves et adultes (exemple symboles combinés)

swarms or

hopper bands
essaims ou

bandes larvaires

adults / hoppers
adultes / larves
in

density

groups

en

groupes

low/unknown

densité

faible/inconnue

