warning level: THREAT (Central Region)

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

FAO Emergency Centre for Locust Op er a tions

General Situation during August 2007
Forecast until mid-October 2007

No. 347

(3 September 2007) 

Central Region. Breeding occurred in the interior of 

Sudan and in the western lowlands in Eritrea during 
August. Locust numbers increased on the Red Sea 
coastal plains in Sudan, Eritrea and Yemen where 
breeding is likely to start earlier than usual. At the 
end of the month, there were unconﬁ rmed reports 
of locusts on the Red Sea coast near Jizan, Saudi 
Arabia. These events, combined with the deteriorating 
situation in the interior of Yemen, could lead to a 
signiﬁ cant increase in locusts in the Region during 
the coming months, ﬁ rst in the summer breeding 
areas, then in the winter breeding areas on the 
Red Sea coast. Countries should take immediate 
steps to monitor these areas and carry out control 
operations as required. Some of these activities may 
need additional assistance from the international 
community. Elsewhere, a few swarms from eastern 
Yemen invaded southern Oman and adults moved 
to northeast Oman where local breeding was in 
progress. 

Eastern Region. Locust numbers increased 

slightly along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border 
because of small-scale breeding that occurred during 
August. Breeding is expected to continue during the 
forecast period between Tharparkar and Cholistan 
in Pakistan and in Rajasthan, India. There is a very 
low possibility that a few small swarms could arrive 
in either country from Yemen via Oman during the 
ﬁ rst half of September. Thereafter, this threat should 
pass. Limited control was carried out against adults 
that persisted and were breeding on the southeastern 
coast of Iran. 

The Desert Locust situation worsened during 
August in Yemen as immature swarms formed in 
the interior and moved into the central highlands. 
Some swarms remained in the interior where 
another generation of breeding is likely to occur 
while a few others moved to southern Oman. The 
swarms in the highlands are expected to reach 
the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden coast where they 
will mature and lay eggs. A few swarms could 
also reach coastal areas in Saudi Arabia, Eritrea, 
Sudan and northern Somalia where good rains fell 
during August. There is also a slight risk that a 
few swarms could reach the Indo-Pakistan border 
during the ﬁ rst half of September. Elsewhere, 
heavy rains and ﬂ ooding occurred in the interior 
of Sudan and Eritrea where locust numbers are 
expected to increase. 

Western Region. The situation continued to 

remain calm during August. Small-scale breeding 
has probably started in parts of the northern Sahel in 
Mauritania, Mali, Niger and Chad where good rains 
fell and ecological conditions were favourable during 
the month. Surveys were halted in northeast Mali due 
to insecurity. Locust numbers will gradually increase 
during the forecast period as breeding continues in 
these countries. Local breeding may also take place 
in southern Algeria. No locusts were reported and no 
signiﬁ cant developments are expected elsewhere in 
Northwest Africa. 

The FAO Desert Bulletin is issued monthly, supplemented by
Updates during periods of increased Desert Locust activity, and is 
distributed by e-mail, FAO pouch and airmail by the Locusts and
Other Migratory Pests Group, AGP Division, FAO, 00153 Rome, Italy.
It is also available on the Internet.
Telephone: +39 06 570 52420 (7 days/week, 24 hr)
Facsimile: +39 06 570 55271
E-mail: eclo@fao.org
Internet:  www.fao.org
DLIS: www.fao.org/ag/locusts

No. 347

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Weather & Ecological 
Con di tions in August 2007

Good rains fell and ecological conditions were 
favourable for breeding in the northern Sahel of 
West Africa. Floods occurred in Sudan and Eritrea, 
and breeding conditions improved on the Red 
Sea coast. Vegetation was drying in the interior 
of Yemen. Breeding conditions were favourable 
along the Indo-Pakistan border.
 

In the Western Region, the position of the Inter-

Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) was normal 
during August compared to the long-term average, 
oscillating around 20N over the Sahel with occasional 
northward surges to 26N over the Algerian Sahara. 
Consequently, good rains fell in most of the summer 
breeding areas throughout the month, although they 
were generally heaviest in the ﬁ rst and last decades 
of the month. In Mauritania, showers fell south of 
19N, mainly in the two Hodhs and to a lesser extent 
in other areas. In the northwest, light rainfall occurred 
in parts of Inchiri and southwest Adrar during the 
second week. Vegetation was green south of the 
Tagant Plateau but was dry in the Aftout Fai. In Mali, 
good rains fell in the west along the Mauritania border 
and in the Tamesna east of Gao. Lighter rains fell 
and ecological conditions were improving in the north 
between Araouane and Ti-n-kar and from Kidal to 
the Niger border. In Niger, good rains fell in the Air 
Mountains, in Tamesna and along the Chad border. 
Vegetation was green in southern Tamesna and it was 
becoming green further north as well as in western 
Air. In Chad, rainfall reached 18N but was heaviest 
in Kanem, Batha, Ouaddai and Biltine provinces. 
In Northwest Africa, light to moderate showers fell 
along the southern side of the Atlas Mountains from 
Guelmim, Morocco to El Oued, Algeria. Rains were 
heaviest in Morocco between Tata and Zag, and 
extended to areas east of Smara. Light rains fell at 
times in the Algerian Sahara near Adrar, Tamanrasset 
and along the Malian border.

In the Central Region, heavy rains fell throughout 

the summer breeding areas in the interior of Sudan 
and in western Eritrea. In Sudan, some of the showers 
reached as far north as 18N in North Darfur and 19N 
in Nile State. Rains also fell in the Red Sea Hills 
page 2 of   8

between Haiya and Gebeit. Good rains since mid-
June have caused ﬂ ash ﬂ oods with the worst affected 
areas being Kassala State where the River Gash 
ﬂ ooded and washed away crops, Khartoum and North 
Kordofan. In Eritrea, heavy rains delayed crop planting 
and washed away bridges in the western lowlands. 
Ecological conditions were favourable in non-ﬂ ooded 
areas and will become favourable in other areas once 
the waters recede. On the Red Sea coast, vegetation 
was green along many wadis between Massawa, 
Eritrea and Port Sudan because of previous rainfall 
and runoff. Breeding conditions continued to be 
favourable along the coast in Saudi Arabia from 
Qunﬁ dah to Bab El Mandeb in Yemen where rains fell 
for the third consecutive month. Rainfall declined in 
the summer breeding areas in the interior of Yemen. 
Vegetation was drying out quickly on the plateau from 
Minwakh to the Oman border but remained green in 
the Shabwah and Marib Governorates where light 
rains fell at times. Mainly dry conditions prevailed in 
Oman. Elsewhere, light to moderate rains fell at times 
between Dire Dawa, Ethiopia and Berbera, northern 
Somalia.

In the Eastern Region, good rains associated with 

the monsoon fell in early August along both sides 
of the Indo-Pakistan border. Heavy rains generated 
by a low-pressure system over Rajasthan occurred 
during the second week in Rajasthan and Gujarat in 
India, and in Sindh and coastal areas of Baluchistan 
in Pakistan. Thereafter, little rain fell except for 
a few days during the last decade of the month. 
Nevertheless, ecological conditions were favourable 
for breeding in Tharparkar, Khairpur and Cholistan 
deserts in Pakistan and in Rajasthan.

Area Treated

                 50 ha (10-12 August)

Iran 
Oman                947 ha (August)
12,664 ha (August)
Yemen 

Desert Locust
Situation and Forecast

( see also the summary on page 1 )

WESTERN REGION
Mauritania
• SITUATION
During August, isolated mature solitarious adults 
persisted in a few places in the southeast, mainly in 
Hodh Ech Chargui between Nema (1636N/0715W) 
and Oualata (1717N/0701W) and, to a lesser 

extent, in Hodh El Gharbi near Aioun El Atrous 
(1639N/0936W). No locusts were seen elsewhere in 
the summer breeding areas.

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is likely to be in progress and 
will continue in the south and cause locust numbers to 
increase slightly. Scattered locusts are likely to appear 
in the northwest and breed on a small-scale if rainfall 
occurs.

Senegal
• SITUATION
A late report indicated that no locusts were seen 

during surveys carried out on 17-26 July. In August, no 
locusts were seen during surveys carried out during 
the last week of the month.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Mali
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys that 

commenced on 13 August northeast of Tombouctou 
(1649N/0259W), in the Timetrine near Ti-n-kar 
(1926N/0022W), and in the Adrar des Iforas near 
Tessalit (2011N/0102E), Aguelhoc (1927N/0052E) 
and between Kidal (1827N/0125E) and Tin Essako 
(1826N/0229E). All surveys were halted on the 26th 
after one team was attacked north of Gao.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present and 

breeding north of Tombouctou and in parts of the 
northeast (Timetrine, Tilemsi Valley, Adrar des Iforas 
and Tamesna). Small-scale breed will continue in 
these areas and cause locust numbers to increase 
slightly.

Niger
• SITUATION
During August, isolated solitarious fourth instar 

hoppers and immature adults were seen in the 
southeast at two places about 200 km northeast of 
Zinder (1346N/0858E). No surveys were carried out 
and no locusts were reported in Tamesna or Air.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present and 

breeding in parts of Tamesna and the Air Mountains. 
Small-scale breeding will continue in these areas and 
cause locust numbers to increase slightly. 

Chad
• SITUATION
A late report indicated that no surveys were carried 

out and no locusts were reported during July.

During August, no locusts were seen during surveys 
carried out in Kanem west of Salal (1448N/1712E) and 
in Biltine south of Arada (1501N/2040E) on the 5-8th. 
There was an unconﬁ rmed report of a few locusts in 
Ouaddai near Goz Beida (1242N/2125E) on the 26th. 

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to be present and 

breeding in parts of the centre and northeast. Small-
scale breeding will continue in these areas and cause 
locust numbers to increase slightly.

Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 

Côte d’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, 
Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Togo

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Algeria
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during August.

• FORECAST
Isolated adults could appear in the south near 

Tamanrasset and Bir Bou Mokhtar and breed on a 
small scale in areas of recent rainfall.

Morocco 
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during August.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during August.

 • FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Tunisia
• SITUATION
No reports were received during August.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

CENTRAL REGION
Sudan
• SITUATION
Surveys carried out during the last week of August 
indicated that breeding was in progress in River Nile 

No. 347

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 3 of   8

No. 347

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

and Khartoum States. First to fourth instar hopper 
bands were seen in the Baiyuda Desert west of Atbara 
(1742N/3400E) as well as mature gregarious adults, 
some of which were laying eggs. Further south, 
isolated hoppers and groups of maturing adults were 
present west of Shendi (1641N/3322E). Groups of 
immature and mature gregarious adults were seen in 
the Red Sea Hills near Khor Baraka and the Eritrean 
border at 1726N/3742E and on the Red Sea coast in 
the Tokar Delta.

• Forecast
Scattered hoppers and adults are almost certainly 

present in West and North Darfur, North Kordofan, 
White Nile and Kassala States. Small to moderate 
scale breeding will continue during the forecast 
period, causing locust numbers to increase further 
and perhaps gregarize. Locusts are also likely to be 
present on the Red Sea coastal plains south of Port 
Sudan where there is a risk that a few swarms may 
arrive from Yemen. Locust numbers will increase on 
the coast as breeding occurs in areas of recent rainfall 
and runoff. Efforts should be made to monitor the 
situation carefully in all areas.

Eritrea
• SITUATION
During August, small scale breeding occurred in 
the western lowlands where solitarious hoppers of 
all instars, at densities of up to 5 hoppers/m2, mixed 
with scattered immature and mature adults were 
seen at few places along W. Barka near Kerkebet 
(1618N/3724E). On the northern Red Sea coast, 
there was an increase in the number of scattered 
solitarious immature and mature adults at several 
places between Mehimet (1723N/3833E) and the 
Sudanese border as well as at few places further 
south near Gheleb Sagla (1707N/3853E) Mersa 
Gulbub (1633N/3908E).

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding will cause locust numbers to 
increase in the western lowlands and on the northern 
Red Sea coast between Massawa and Karora. There 
is a risk that a few swarms may arrive from Yemen.

Ethiopia
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out 

between Jijiga (0922N/4250E) and the northern 
page 4 of   8

Somalia border on 12 August.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults may be present between Dire 
Dawa and northern Somalia and breed on a small 
scale in areas of recent rainfall.

Djibouti
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during August.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Somalia
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out during August but 
there were unconﬁ rmed reports of isolated mature 
adults present on the plateau between Boroma 
(0956N/4313E) and Burao (0931N/4533E).

• FORECAST
Scattered adults may be present and breeding on 
the plateau between Boroma and Burao in areas of 
recent rainfall. There is a risk that a few swarms could 
arrive on the coast or the escarpment from Yemen 
during periods of strong northerly winds. If so, the 
adults are likely to mature and lay eggs in favourable 
areas.

Egypt
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out 
in mid-August on the Red Sea coast between Abu 
Ramad (2224N/3624E) and the Sudanese border, and 
in nearby W. Diib. 

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Saudi Arabia
• SITUATION
During August, no locusts were seen during surveys 

in the interior and on the Red Sea coast near Rabigh 
(2247N/3901E) and Qunﬁ dah (1909N/4107E). On 
the 30th, there were unconﬁ rmed reports of locusts 
in many places on the Red Sea coast south of Jizan 
(1656N/4233E).

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to appear on the 

southern coast of the Red Sea between Qunﬁ dah and 
Jizan, and breed on a small scale in areas of recent 
rainfall. There is a risk that a few swarms could arrive 
in these areas from Yemen.

Yemen
• SITUATION
During August, hatching and band formation 
continued in the summer breeding areas of the 

interior, mainly reported in the Hadhramaut region 
and, to a lesser extent, in Al-Mahara, Shabwah and 
Marib regions. Light to moderate crop damage was 
reported in some areas. By mid-month, most of the 
hatching had ended, the majority of hoppers had 
ﬂ edged and an increasing number of gregarious 
immature adults were forming groups and small 
swarms up to 5 km2 in size. As vegetation dried 
out on the Hadhramaut plateau between Al Abr 
(1608N/4714E) and Shehan (1746N/5229E), swarms 
moved during the second half of the month west 
towards Shabwah, Abyan, Marib and Al-Jawf regions 
and reached the central highlands near Sana’a, 
Dhamar (1433N/4424E), Ibb (1358N/4411E), Ad Dali 
(1341N/4443E) and Al Baydha (1405N/4542E), and 
the Aden coast near Lahij (1303N/4453E). One swarm 
reportedly reached Al-Mahwait (1529N/4334E) in the 
mountains west of Sana’a. A few swarms also moved 
east into southern Oman. 

At the end of August, hopper groups and bands 
as well as small immature swarms continued to be 
reported in the Hadhramaut region, groups of late 
instar hoppers and scattered adults were present 
in Al-Mahara, immature and mature swarms were 
seen in Shabwah, and adults were present in Al-Jawf 
region. Some adults were reported to be copulating 
near Wadi Hadhramaut. Control teams treated 12,664 
ha in August of which 3,080 ha were by air. Control 
operations were halted for a week due to insecurity 
and tensions with beekeepers in Hadhramaut.

On the Red Sea coast, scattered immature and 
mature solitarious adults were present in the north 
near Midi (1619N/4248E) and on the central coast 
near Bajil (1458N/4314E). Adults were reported to be 
copulating near Bajil.

• FORECAST
More swarms will form in Hadhramaut and Al-

Mahara in September and move towards Shabwah, 
Marib and Al-Jawf where they will mature and lay 
eggs. Hatching is expected to occur by the end of 
September and hoppers will form bands in October. 
Some swarms may continue to the central highlands 
and eventually reach the Red Sea coastal plains 
and the coast near Aden. If so, they will mature and 
lay eggs that should hatch and cause hoppers to 
form bands from October onwards. Consequently, 
locust numbers will increase on the Red Sea coast 
because of local breeding by current populations, 
supplemented by locusts that arrive from the interior 
and breed.

 
Oman
• SITUATION
In early August, small-scale breeding occurred in 

the south along the Yemeni border near Maziuna 
(1750N/5239E) where solitarious and transiens 

hoppers and adults were present in several places. 
On the 15th, a small immature swarm with about 
10 locusts/m2 arrived near Maziuna from adjacent 
areas in Yemen. During the next few days, the same 
swarm was seen further north near Qabat Al Nasr 
(1810N/5311E) and there were other reports of small 
swarms ﬂ ying from the southwest to the northeast in 
the same area. During the last week of August, groups 
of low to medium densities of immature gregarious 
adults mixed with a few mature gregarious adults were 
present in the south. Ground control teams treated 
947 ha during August.

In the northeast, immature solitarious adults 

were seen in the Sharqiya region on the 22nd in the 
Wahiba Sands (ca. 2144N/5852E) and near the coast 
southwest of Ras Al Hadd (2232N/5947E) on the 27th. 
Local breeding occurred in a few places affected by 
Cyclone Gonu in June where solitarious and transiens 
hoppers were present. 

• FORECAST
There remains a slight risk that a few more swarms 

could appear in the south from adjacent areas in 
eastern Yemen during September and move north 
towards Sharqiya. A few small groups of hoppers and 
adults may form from local breeding in Sharqiya.

Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 

Lebanon, Palestine, Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, 
UAE and Uganda

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

EASTERN REGION
Iran
• SITUATION
During August, medium to high densities of 

solitarious and transiens immature and mature adults 
were seen at 8 places on the southeastern coast near 
Chabahar (2517N/6036E) on the 10-12th. Some of 
the adults were copulating. Ground control operations 
treated 50 ha.
• FORECAST
Low numbers of locusts could persist in a few 

places near Chabahar and breed on a small-scale in 
those areas that remain favourable.

No. 347

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 5 of   8

No. 347

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Pakistan
• SITUATION
During the second half of July, scattered mature 

adults persisted in the Khairpur and Cholistan desert 
between the Indus River Valley and the Indian border 
as well as in the Lasbela (2614N/6619E) area west of 
Karachi.

During the ﬁ rst half of August, limited hatching 

occurred at two places near the Indian border 
southeast of Rahimyar Khan (2822N/7020E). 
Scattered mature adults persisted in Khairpur and 
Cholistan.

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding will continue in Cholistan and 
Khairpur with further hatching, causing locust numbers 
to increase slightly. Fledglings and immature adults 
will appear from early September onwards. Similar 
breeding is probably underway and will continue in 
Tharparkar. There is a very low possibility that a few 
small swarms could arrive from Yemen via Oman 
during the ﬁ rst half of September. Thereafter, this 
threat should pass.

India
• SITUATION
During August, small-scale breeding occurred in 
Bikaner district where scattered solitarious second 
to fourth instar hoppers were seen north of Phalodi 
(2706N/7222E). Isolated and scattered immature 
and mature solitarious adults persisted in Bikaner, 
Jaisalmer and Jodhpur districts of Rajasthan, and in 
Bhuj district of Gujarat. Some adults were laying eggs 
near Jaisalmer (2652N/7055E).

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding will continue in Rajasthan with 

further hatching, causing locust numbers to increase 
slightly. Fledglings and immature adults will appear 
from early September onwards. There is a very low 
possibility that a few small swarms could arrive from 
Yemen via Oman during the ﬁ rst half of September. 
Thereafter, this threat should pass.

Afghanistan
• SITUATION
No reports received.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

page 6 of   8

Announcements

Locust reporting. During recession periods, 

countries should report at least once/month and send 
RAMSES data with a brief interpretation. During 
caution (yellow) periods, locust outbreaks, upsurges 
and plagues, RAMSES output ﬁ les with a brief 
interpretation should be sent twice/week and affected 
countries are encouraged to prepare decadal bulletins 
summarizing the situation. All information should 
be sent by e-mail to the FAO/ECLO Desert Locust 
Information Service (eclo@fao.org). Information 
received by the end of the month will be included in 
the FAO Desert Locust Bulletin for the current month; 
otherwise, it will not appear until the following month. 
Reports should be sent even if no locusts were found 
or if no surveys were conducted.

eLocust2. FAO has developed a new version 

of eLocust in collaboration with affected countries 
and the French Space Agency (CNES/Novacom) 
that allows ﬁ eld ofﬁ cers to enter survey and control 
data directly in the ﬁ eld and transmit it in real time 
via satellite to their national locust centre. Data 
can also be downloaded to a PC and visualized on 
GoogleEarth. The software is in both English and 
French. FAO DLIS has distributed units to nearly all of 
the frontline countries. Photos and more information 
are available at: www.fao.org/ag/locusts/en/activ/DLIS/
index.html

Desert Locust warning levels. A colour-coded 

scheme indicates the seriousness of the current 
Desert Locust situation: green for calm, yellow for 
caution, orange for threat and red for danger. The 
scheme is applied to the Locust Watch web page and 
to the monthly bulletin’s header. The levels indicate 
the perceived risk or threat of current Desert Locust 
infestations to crops and appropriate actions are 
suggested for each level.

EMPRES/CRC website. Detailed information 

on EMPRES/CR and the FAO Central Region 
Commission as well as member country proﬁ les can 
be found on the new EMPRES/CRC website at: www.
crc-empres.org.

MODIS imagery. Columbia University’s 

International Research Institute for Climate and 
Society (IRI) has started to provide 16-day 250-metre 
resolution MODIS imagery for monitoring ecological 
conditions in the Desert Locust recession area, 
in addition to the daily rainfall estimates already 
available. These products can be downloaded in 
different formats suitable for GIS at: http://iridl.ldeo.
columbia.edu/maproom/.Food_Security/.Locusts/

index.html. Comments and questions can be 
addressed to Pietro Ceccato (pceccato@iri.columbia.
edu). 

SMALL

•  swarm: 1 - 10 km2 

• band: 25 - 2,500 m2

MEDIUM

•  swarm: 10 - 100 km2  

• band: 2,500 m2 - 10 ha

New information on Locust Watch. DLIS 

LARGE

launched a new initiative in October called Desert 
Locust e-info news as a means of keeping everyone 
informed on a weekly basis of new information on the 
Locust Group’s web page, Locust Watch (www.fao.
org/ag/locusts). The latest additions are:
• 

Several updates during August 

 1st to 9th session 

Locust situation. 
(home page and in Archives section)
Pesticide Referee Group.
reports, 1989-2004 (Publications section)
SW Asia Commission.
1964-2006 (Publications section)
Outbreaks and upsurges.
section)

 New format (Archives 

 1st to 25th session reports, 

Links to the above information can be found in the 
Latest Additions section on Locust Watch.

2007 events. The following meetings are 

scheduled:
• 

. 4th Executive Committee 

EMPRES/CR
. 4th Desert Locust Emergency 
Prevention meeting (9-11 September), Cairo 
(Egypt)
CLCPRO
(18-19 October) and 4th Session (22-26 October), 
Bamako (Mali)
EMPRES/WR
(26-30 November) and 3rd Steering Committee 
(3-4 December), Agadir (Morocco)

. 6th Liaison Ofﬁ cers Meeting 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

•  swarm: 100 - 500 km2 

• band: 10 - 50 ha

VERY LARGE

•  swarm: 500+ km2 

• band: 50+ ha

RAINFALL
LIGHT

•  1 - 20 mm of rainfall.

MODERATE

•  21 - 50 mm of rainfall.

HEAVY

•  more than 50 mm of rainfall.

OTHER REPORTING TERMS
BREEDING

• the process of reproduction from copulation to   

ﬂ edg ing.
SUMMER RAINS AND BREEDING
•  July - September/October
WINTER RAINS AND BREEDING

•  October - January/February

SPRING RAINS AND BREEDING

•  February - June/July

DECLINE

•  a period characterised by breeding failure and/or 

suc cess ful control leading to the dissociation of 
swarm ing populations and the onset of recessions; 
can be regional or major.
OUTBREAK

•  a marked increase in locust numbers due to 

con cen tra tion, multiplication and gregarisation 
which, unless checked, can lead to the formation of 
hopper bands and swarms.
UPSURGE

Glossary of terms

The following special terms are used in the Desert 

•  a period following a recession marked initially 

Locust Bulletin when reporting locusts:

NON-GREGARIOUS ADULTS AND HOPPERS
ISOLATED   (FEW) 

•  very few present and no mu tu al reaction occurring;
•  0 - 1 adult/400 m foot transect (or less than 25/ha). 

SCATTERED  (SOME, LOW NUMBERS) 

by a very large increase in locust numbers and 
con tem po ra ne ous outbreaks followed by the 
production of two or more successive seasons of 
transient-to- gre gar i ous breeding in complimentary 
seasonal breed ing areas in the same or 
neighbouring Desert Lo cust regions.
PLAGUE

•  enough present for mutual reaction to be possible 

but no ground or basking groups seen;

•  a period of one or more years of widespread and 
heavy infestations, the majority of which occur as 

•  1 - 20 adults/400 m foot transect (or 25 - 500/ha).  

GROUP 

•  forming ground or basking groups;
•  20+ adults/400 m foot transect (or 500+/ha).

ADULT SWARM AND HOPPER BAND SIZES
VERY SMALL

•  swarm: less than 1 km2 

• band: 1 - 25 m2

No. 347

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 7 of   8

No. 347

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

bands or swarms. A major plague exists when two 
or more regions are affected simultaneously.
RECESSION

•  period without widespread and heavy infestations 

by swarms.
REMISSION

•  period of deep recession marked by the complete 

absence of gregarious populations.

WARNING LEVELS 
GREEN

•  Calm. No threat to crops. Maintain regular surveys 

and monitoring.
YELLOW

•  Caution. Potential threat to crops. Increased 

vigilance is required; control operations may be 
needed.
RED

•  Danger. Signiﬁ cant threat to crops. Intensive survey 

and control operations must be undertaken.

REGIONS
WESTERN

•  locust-affected countries in West and North-West 

Africa: Algeria, Chad, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, 
Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Tunisia; during plagues 
only: Burkino Faso, Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea 
and Guinea-Bissau.
CENTRAL

•  locust-affected countries along the Red Sea: 

Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Oman, Saudi 
Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen; during plagues 
only: Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, UAE and Uganda.
EASTERN

•  locust-affected countries in South-West Asia: 

Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan.

page 8 of   8

Desert  Locust  Summary
Criquet  pèlerin  -  Situation  résumée

347

10

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

30

20

10

(unc)

FORECAST  TO:
PREVISION  AU:
favourable breeding conditions
conditions favourables à la reproduction

15.10.07

LIKELY

PROBABLE

POSSIBLE
POSSIBLE

10

20

30

40

major swarm(s)
essaim(s) important(s)

minor swarm(s)
essaim(s) limité(s)

non swarming adults
adultes non essaimant

SITUATION:
August 2007
Août 2007

immature adults
adultes immatures
mature or partly mature adults
adultes matures ou partiellement matures
adults, maturity unknown
adultes, maturité inconnue
egg laying or eggs
pontes ou œufs
hoppers
larves
hoppers & adults (combined symbol example)
larves et adultes (exemple symboles combinés)

swarms or

hopper bands
essaims ou

bandes larvaires

30

20

adults / hoppers
adultes / larves
in

density

groups

en

groupes

low/unknown

densité

faible/inconnue

