warning level: CAUTION (Central Region)

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

FAO Emergency Centre for Locust Op er a tions

General Situation during November 2007
Forecast until mid-January 2008

No. 350

(3 December 2007) 

The Desert Locust situation worsened in eastern 

Central Region. Breeding occurred during 

November in eastern Ethiopia where hatching and 
numerous bands formed in the Ogaden. Several 
swarms continued to lay eggs there while a few others 
moved south to southern Somalia and northeastern 
Kenya. Ground and aerial control operations were 
carried out in Ethiopia and teams in Kenya are 
preparing for hopper band control in December. 
Numerous adult groups and several swarms formed 
in the summer breeding area in the interior of Sudan 
and moved north and eastwards as vegetation dried 
out. Consequently, an increasing number of adults 
were seen in the Western Desert in Egypt and some 
adults reached Cairo. In the winter breeding areas 
along the Red Sea coast, hopper bands and a swarm 
formed in northeastern Sudan and bands were 
present in the Tokar Delta. Smaller scale breeding 
was in progress on the coast in southeastern Egypt, 
northern Eritrea, in Yemen including the Gulf of 
Aden coast, and probably in Saudi Arabia. Control 
operations were carried out in Sudan and Egypt. A 
few swarms are expected to arrive on the Red Sea 
coast from the interior in December and lay eggs. If 
more rains fall along the Red Sea coast, breeding will 
continue during the forecast period and cause locust 
numbers to increase further. 

Eastern Region. Locust numbers continued to 
decline in the summer breeding areas along both 
sides of the Indo-Pakistan border during November. 
Two small swarms unexpectedly formed from local 
breeding in northern Baluchistan, Pakistan and were 
controlled in early November. 

Africa during November. Hatching and band 
formation occurred in eastern Ethiopia, swarms 
were seen in Somalia and a few swarms invaded 
northeastern Kenya for the ﬁ rst time since 1961 
and laid eggs. Hatching and band formation will 
occur during December in the three countries. 
Therefore, it is critical that intensive survey and 
control operations are undertaken; otherwise, new 
swarms could start to form at the end of the year 
and move further south in Kenya. Small swarms 
also formed in Sudan and moved towards Egypt 
and to the Red Sea coast where breeding was 
underway and will continue during the forecast 
period, causing locust numbers to increase 
further. All efforts should be made to monitor this 
developing and potentially dangerous situation 
closely and carefully, and to undertake control as 
necessary. The locust situation remained calm in 
the Western and Eastern regions. 

Western Region. The situation continued to remain 

calm during November. Locust numbers increased 
slightly from small-scale breeding that took place in 
central Mauritania, in northern Niger and probably 
in northeastern Chad. During the forecast period, 
small-scale breeding is expected to occur in northwest 
Mauritania and locusts will increase further. Low 
numbers of adults will persist in parts of northern 
Mali and Niger, and in northeastern Chad. No locusts 
were reported in northwest Africa and no signiﬁ cant 
developments are expected.

The FAO Desert Bulletin is issued monthly, supplemented by
Updates during periods of increased Desert Locust activity, and is 
distributed by e-mail, FAO pouch and airmail by the Locusts and
Other Migratory Pests Group, AGP Division, FAO, 00153 Rome, Italy.
It is also available on the Internet.
Telephone: +39 06 570 52420 (7 days/week, 24 hr)
Facsimile: +39 06 570 55271
E-mail: eclo@fao.org
Internet:  www.fao.org
DLIS: www.fao.org/ag/locusts

No. 350

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Weather & Ecological 
Con di tions in November 2007

Very little rain fell during November in all 

regions. Yet, ecological conditions remained 
favourable for locust survival in parts of the 
northern Sahel in West Africa, and for breeding 
along parts of the Red Sea coast and in eastern 
Africa.
 

In the Western Region, the Inter-Tropical 

Convergence Zone (ITCZ) continued its steady 
southward retreat over West Africa, reaching 5N by 
the end of the month. Although, no signiﬁ cant rains fell 
in the region, enough green vegetation persisted in a 
few areas of the northern Sahel to allow low numbers 
of locusts to survive. In central Mauritania, vegetation 
remained green and ecological conditions were 
favourable for breeding in Tagant and southwestern 
Adrar. Green vegetation persisted in the main wadis 
in the Adrar des Iforas in northern Mali and in the Air 
Mountains in Niger. In northwest Africa, light showers 
fell in Morocco in a few places along the southern side 
of the Atlas Mountains and on the coast near Tan-tan 
during the last week of November.

In the Central Region, very little rain fell during 

November. Nevertheless, ecological conditions 
remained favourable in the summer breeding areas 
in the interior of Sudan in North Kordofan along Wadi 
Milk and near Abu Uruq, in the Baiyuda Desert, along 
the Nile and Atbara rivers and on the western side of 
the Red Sea Hills. On the coast, ecological conditions 
were not favourable for breeding except for a few 
places where light showers fell between Tokar Delta, 
Sudan and Mehimet, Eritrea and near Abu Ramad 
in southeastern Egypt. In Yemen, vegetation was 
drying out along parts of the Red Sea and Gulf of 
Aden coasts where only a few light showers fell at 
times during the month. In northwest Somalia, light 
to moderate rains fell on the coast, escarpment and 
plateau, and ecological conditions were improving. 
Light to moderate rain associated with a tropical 
disturbance fell in coastal and interior areas of 
southern and central Oman on 1-3 November, and 
some showers fell in coastal areas of eastern Yemen 
and northeast Somalia. During the ﬁ rst decade of the 
month, widespread light to moderate showers fell in 
page 2 of   9

eastern Ethiopia, central and southern Somalia, and in 
northeastern Kenya. Thereafter, only light showers fell 
in parts of southern Somalia and northeastern Kenya. 
Nevertheless, breeding conditions were favourable in 
all three countries.

In the Eastern Region, dry weather prevailed 

throughout November in the region and ecological 
conditions were not favourable for breeding. 
Vegetation was drying out in the Cholistan Desert 
in Pakistan near the border with India, and in most 
places of Rajasthan, India except for Barmer district.

Area Treated

Egypt           168 ha (1-26 November)
     40 ha (31 October)
Ethiopia 
1,707 ha (9-23 November)
 
   
   700 ha (26-31 October)
Pakistan 
          250 ha (2-6 November)
 
Sudan     28,446 ha (1-23 November)

Desert Locust
Situation and Forecast

( see also the summary on page 1 )

WESTERN REGION
Mauritania
• SITUATION
During November, locust numbers increased 

steadily because of small-scale breeding and 
hatching in northern Brakna, northeastern Trarza, 
Tagant and southwestern Adrar where scattered 
solitarious hoppers and adults were present. By the 
20th, densities had reached up to 3,000 hoppers/
ha and 3,500 adults/ha and, in a few places, up to 
four late instar hoppers/bush and one ﬁ rst instar 
hopper/m2 were seen. Laying was also in progress in 
southwestern Adrar. No locusts were seen in Hodh 
Ech Chargui except for scattered mature adults at one 
place east of Nema (1636N/0715W).

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding will continue in the centre and 
northwest, causing locust numbers to increase further 
with a possibility that a few small groups could form.

Mali
• SITUATION
During November, isolated solitarious locusts were 
reported on the 16th in the central part of the Adrar des 
Iforas near Etambar (1827N/0124E).

• FORECAST
Isolated locusts are expected to persist in those 

areas that remain green in the Adrar des Iforas.

Niger
• SITUATION
During November, isolated immature solitarious 
adults were seen near Tahoua (1457N/0519E) and 
Arlit (1843N/0721E). Isolated solitarious late instar 
hoppers and immature and mature adults were 
present in the southeastern Air Mountains, and a 
group of immature adults was seen in the same area 
at Azangara (1705N/0854E) on the 13th.

• FORECAST
Low numbers of locusts are likely to persist in parts 

of the Air Mountains and perhaps breed if conditions 
become favourable.

Chad
• SITUATION
No reports were received during November.
• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is expected to have occurred 

in the Fada area during November. During the 
forecast period, scattered adults may concentrate and 
could form small groups as vegetation continues to 
dry out in the northeast.

Senegal
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during November.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 

Côte d’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, 
Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Togo

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Algeria
• SITUATION
No reports were received during November.
• FORECAST
Low numbers of locusts may be present in the south 

near Tamanrasset and Bir Bou Mokhtar but breeding 
is unlikely unless additional rainfall occurs.

Morocco 
• SITUATION
No locusts were reported during October and 

November.

• FORECAST
Scattered adults are likely to appear in the extreme 
south of Western Sahara and breed on a small-scale if 

rainfall occurs.

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out 
at the end of November in the southwest near Ghat 
(2459N/1011E) and in the southeast near Kufra 
(2411N/2315E).

 • FORECAST
There is a low risk that scattered adults and 

perhaps a few small groups could appear in the 
southeast near Jebel Uweinat from northern Sudan.

Tunisia
• SITUATION
No surveys were carried out and no locusts were 

reported during November.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

CENTRAL REGION
Sudan
• SITUATION
In the summer breeding areas, groups of immature 

and mature solitarious, transiens and gregarious 
adults formed at densities up to 30,000 adults/ha in 
North Kordofan State between Sodiri (1423N/2906E), 
Wadi Milk and the Baiyuda Desert. Similar groups 
and a few dozen low-density swarms up to 5 km2 
in size formed on the western side of the Red Sea 
Hills near Haiya (1820N/3621E) and to a lesser 
extent along the Atbara and Nile rivers. Groups and 
bands of late instar hoppers and ﬂ edglings were 
present in a few places in the Baiyuda Desert south 
of Merowe (1830N/3149E), and mature adults were 
seen laying further north along the Nile near Dongola 
(1910N/3027E). During the third week, some of these 
swarms moved east to the Tokar Delta on the Red 
Sea coast where they were copulating, while other 
swarms moved northwest to the Egyptian border at 
Wadi Halfa (2147N/3122E) and northeast to Wadi Oko 
near Tomala (2002N/3551E).

In the winter breeding areas, numerous very small 

late instar hopper bands were present and ﬂ edging 
near the Egyptian border in Wadi Diib, giving rise to 
a few a small swarms by the third week. Groups of 
mature adults were also present nearby, and adults 
were seen on the coast north of Port Sudan. Breeding 
continued in the Tokar Delta where groups of mature 

No. 350

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 3 of   9

No. 350

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

adults were present and hoppers formed small groups 
and bands. A low-density swarm was seen laying on 
the 19th.

Ground control teams treated 28,446 ha up to 

23 November. Although it was indicated in Bulletin 
349 that Metarhizium was used in October, this was 
incorrect.

• Forecast
Locust numbers will decline in the summer breeding 

areas of the interior as vegetation dries out and the 
remaining populations form small groups and swarms 
that will move in December towards the Red Sea 
coast. Consequently, locust numbers will increase on 
the coast, mainly in Tokar Delta, and in subcoastal 
areas in the north (W. Oko/Diib). Breeding will 
continue in these areas where hoppers and adults will 
form small groups, bands and perhaps a few swarms.

the second week of November and numerous dense, 
small early instar hopper bands formed north of the 
Shebele River in Korahe and Warder zones. A few 
late instar bands were seen in third week from earlier 
hatching. Many of the infestations were concentrated 
between Warder (0658N/4520E) and the Somali 
border.

Control operations treated 1,707 ha from 9-23 
November of which 1,400 ha were treated by air.

• FORECAST
By early December, hatching is expected to 

commence south of the Shebele River where hopper 
bands will form, giving rise to small swarms in early 
January. From mid-December onwards, small swarms 
are expected to form in the Ogaden north of the 
Shebele and gradually move south towards Kenya.

Djibouti
• SITUATION
No reports were received during November.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Somalia
• SITUATION
In the northwest, mature adults were present at 

Eritrea
• SITUATION
During November, isolated adults were laying eggs 

on the northern Red Sea coast between Mehimet 
(1723N/3833E) and Karora (1745N/3820E) during the 
ﬁ rst and last weeks of the month.

a few places along the northwest coast near Bulhar 
(1023N/4425E) and Berbera (1028N/4502E). A 6 km2 
medium density mature swarm was reported just east 
of Berbera on the 24th. No locusts were seen on the 
plateau between Hargeisa (0931N/4402E) and Burao 
(0931N/4533E).

No locusts were seen during surveys carried out in 

In the centre and south, medium and high density 

the western lowlands.

• FORECAST
Small-scale hatching will take place and locust 

numbers will increase slightly on the Red Sea coast 
between Mehimet and Karora. Breeding could 
also extend to other areas along the coast towards 
Massawa if rainfall occurs.

Ethiopia
• SITUATION
On 31 October, second and third instar hopper 

bands were present at 7 places in the eastern 
Ogaden, east of Warder (0658N/4520E). Ground 
control operations were undertaken at four of these 
places, treating 40 ha.

During November, several mature swarms 

continued to move south in the Ogaden and laid eggs, 
reaching the Shebele River at Gode (0557N/4333E) 
on the 9th, Dolo (0410N/4203E) on the 16th and 
crossing the Dawa River into northeast Kenya on the 
18th. There were also reports of a few swarms further 
west along the eastern side of the Harar Highlands. 
Eggs that were laid in October mainly hatched during 
page 4 of   9

groups of solitarious and transiens late instar hoppers 
were seen during the second week east of Garowe 
(0824N/4828E) and near Galkayo (0646N/4725E). 
A small low-density mature swarm was seen further 
south near the Ethiopian border at Belet Weyne 
(0444N/4512E). In the following week, there was an 
unconﬁ rmed report of locusts in the southern regions 
of Bay and Bakool, and a swarm was seen on the 
20th moving from Qansahdere (0252N/4300E) west 
towards the Gedo region and the Kenyan border.

• FORECAST
Egg laying may occur on the northwest coast near 

Berbera that could give rise to a few small hopper 
groups and bands by the end of the forecast period. 
Some swarms may have laid eggs in parts of the 
centre and south that could result in hatching and 
band formation during December.

Kenya
• SITUATION
On 18 November, a dense mature swarm ﬂ ew 

over Mandera (0356N/4151E) in the North Eastern 
Province near the borders of Ethiopia and Somalia. 

There were several reports during the next few days 
of at least one swarm of about 8 km2 in size that 
dispersed in the Mandera area and was laying eggs. 
There were also reports of egg laying further south 
near Elwak (0249N/4056E) and an unconﬁ rmed 
report near Wajir (0144N/4003E). Some crop damage 
occurred along the Dawa River.

• FORECAST
Hatching will occur in the northeast during the 
second week of December and small bands will 
form, giving rise to small swarms by mid January. 
New swarms could appear from the north after mid-
December.

Egypt
• SITUATION
During the last week of October, moderate densities 

of solitarious adults were present in the southwest 
near Jebel Uweinat (2154N/2458E).

During the ﬁ rst half of November, small-scale 

breeding occurred in Wadi Diib near the Red Sea 
coast and the Sudanese border where solitarious ﬁ rst 
to fourth instar hoppers were seen early in the month. 
Scattered immature and mature adults were present 
on the Red Sea coastal plains near Abu Ramad 
(2224N/3624E), in the Red Sea Hills near W. Allaqi 
and along the Lake Nasser shoreline between Abu 
Simbel (2219N/3138E) and Aswan (2405N/3256E). 
Some of the adults were transiens and forming small 
groups. 

During the second half of the month, solitarious 
and transiens adults appeared further north on the 
Red Sea coast near Berenice (2359N/3524E), in the 
Red Sea Hills west of Marsa Alam (2504N/3454E) 
and there was a report of immature transiens adults 
in Cairo. Adults were also seen in the Western Desert 
north of Tushka (2247N/3126E), and mature groups 
were present at Farafra oasis (2710N/2818E). Control 
operations were carried out in most of these areas, 
treating 168 ha up to the 26th. At the end of the 
month, there was an unconﬁ rmed report of gregarious 
immature adults in the southwest near Jebel Uweinat.

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is likely to continue in the 
southeast on the coastal plains near Abu Ramad 
and extend along the coast towards Marsa Alam and 
inland towards Lake Nasser if rains fall in these areas.

Saudi Arabia
• SITUATION
No reports were received during November.
• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is likely to be in progress 

along parts of the Red Sea coast, especially in areas 
of recent rainfall, and will extend to those areas where 

rains fall during the forecast period, causing locust 
numbers to increase slightly.

Yemen
• SITUATION
During November, low numbers of scattered 

solitarious and transiens immature and mature adults 
persisted along the Red Sea coastal plains between 
Zabid (1410N/4318E) and Midi (1619N/4248E) and 
on the coastal plains west of Aden (1250N/4503E). 
Small-scale breeding occurred in both areas where 
isolated solitarious and transiens hoppers were 
present. Hopper densities were slightly higher, up to 
4 hoppers/m2, on the Gulf of Aden coast near Lahij 
(1303N/4453E).

• FORECAST
Small-scale breeding is expected to continue along 
the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden coastal plains, causing 
locust numbers to increase slightly. 

 
Oman
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out on 

the Musandam Peninsula during November.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, 

Palestine, Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, UAE and 
Uganda

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

EASTERN REGION
Iran
• SITUATION
During November, low numbers of solitarious 

immature and mature adults were present on the 
southeastern coast near Chabahar (2517N/6036E), 
and isolated hoppers of all instars were seen at a few 
places nearby. No locusts were seen elsewhere along 
the coast near Jask (2540N/5746E) and Bander-e 
Lengheh (2634N/5452E).

• FORECAST
Low numbers of locusts are likely to persist on the 

southeastern coast.

No. 350

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 5 of   9

No. 350

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

Pakistan
• SITUATION
A late report indicated that ground control 

operations were carried out in the spring breeding 
areas in Baluchistan against 700 ha of ﬁ fth instar 
hoppers, ﬂ edglings and immature adults near 
Kharan (2832N/6526E) on 26-31 October. Two small 
immature swarms were treated on 2 and 6 November, 
covering 250 ha.

In the summer breeding areas, locust numbers 

continued to decline during the ﬁ rst half of November 
in the Cholistan Desert, and only isolated mature 
adults remained near the Indian border southeast 
of Rahimyar Khan (2822N/7020E) and Bahawalpur 
(2924N/7147E).

No locusts were reported during the second half of 

November.

• FORECAST
Locusts will continue to decline in Cholistan but 
small residual populations may be present in the 
Kharan area in Baluchistan.

India
• SITUATION
No locusts were seen during surveys carried out 
in Rajasthan and Gujarat during the second half of 
October and in November.

• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Afghanistan
• SITUATION
No reports received.
• FORECAST
No signiﬁ cant developments are likely.

Announcements

Locust reporting. During recession periods, 

countries should report at least once/month and send 
RAMSES data with a brief interpretation. During 
caution (yellow) periods, locust outbreaks, upsurges 
and plagues, RAMSES output ﬁ les with a brief 
interpretation should be sent twice/week within 48 
hours of the last survey. Affected countries are also 
encouraged to prepare decadal bulletins summarizing 
page 6 of   9

the situation. All information should be sent by e-mail 
to the FAO/ECLO Desert Locust Information Service 
(eclo@fao.org). Information received by the end of 
the month will be included in the FAO Desert Locust 
Bulletin for the current month; otherwise, it will not 
appear until the following month. Reports should be 
sent even if no locusts were found or if no surveys 
were conducted.

eLocust2. FAO has developed a new version 

of eLocust in collaboration with affected countries 
and the French Space Agency (CNES/Novacom) 
that allows ﬁ eld ofﬁ cers to enter survey and control 
data directly in the ﬁ eld and transmit it in real time 
via satellite to their national locust centre. Data 
can also be downloaded to a PC and visualized on 
GoogleEarth. The software is in both English and 
French. FAO DLIS has distributed units to nearly all of 
the frontline countries. Photos and more information 
are available at: www.fao.org/ag/locusts/en/activ/DLIS/
index.html

Desert Locust warning levels. A colour-coded 

scheme indicates the seriousness of the current 
Desert Locust situation: green for calm, yellow for 
caution, orange for threat and red for danger. The 
scheme is applied to the Locust Watch web page and 
to the monthly bulletin’s header. The levels indicate 
the perceived risk or threat of current Desert Locust 
infestations to crops and appropriate actions are 
suggested for each level.

EMPRES websites. Detailed information on the 
EMPRES programme and the FAO regional locust 
commission is available on the Internet for the Central 
Region (www.crc-empres.org) and the Western 
Region (www.clcpro-empres.org).

Google group. FAO DLIS has established a 

Google group for national locust information ofﬁ cers to 
exchange opinions and share experiences regarding 
data management and analysis, GIS, eLocust2 and 
satellite imagery. Interested information ofﬁ cers should 
contact DLIS (eclo@fao.org) for details.

MODIS imagery. Columbia University’s 

International Research Institute for Climate and 
Society (IRI) has started to provide 16-day 250-metre 
resolution MODIS imagery for monitoring ecological 
conditions in the Desert Locust recession area, 
in addition to the daily rainfall estimates already 
available. These products can be downloaded in 
different formats suitable for GIS at: http://iridl.ldeo.
columbia.edu/maproom/.Food_Security/.Locusts/

index.html. Comments and questions can be sent to 
Pietro Ceccato (pceccato@iri.columbia.edu). 

RAINFALL
LIGHT

New information on Locust Watch. The latest 

MODERATE

•  1 - 20 mm of rainfall.

additions to the web site are:
• 

Several updates during 

Locust situation. 
November (home page and in Archives section)
CLCPRO.
 Report of the 4th Executive Committee 
meeting and the 4th Session (Publications section 
– Reports)
Early warning. 
early warning (Activities section – DLIS)
Press release.
Sudan for the media (Archives section – Bulletins)

Basic components for effective 

 11 November locust update in 

Links to the above information can be found in the 
Latest Additions section on Locust Watch.

2007 events. The following meetings are 

scheduled:
• 

. 3rd Steering Committee (3-4 

EMPRES/WR
December), Agadir (Morocco)
EMPRES/WR
workshop (6-8 December), Agadir (Morocco)

. RAMSES and eLocust2 evaluation 

• 

• 

• 

• 

•  21 - 50 mm of rainfall.

HEAVY

•  more than 50 mm of rainfall.

OTHER REPORTING TERMS
BREEDING

• the process of reproduction from copulation to   

ﬂ edg ing.
SUMMER RAINS AND BREEDING
•  July - September/October
WINTER RAINS AND BREEDING

•  October - January/February

SPRING RAINS AND BREEDING

•  February - June/July

DECLINE

•  a period characterised by breeding failure and/or 

suc cess ful control leading to the dissociation of 
swarm ing populations and the onset of recessions; 
can be regional or major.
OUTBREAK

•  a marked increase in locust numbers due to 

con cen tra tion, multiplication and gregarisation 
which, unless checked, can lead to the formation of 
hopper bands and swarms.
UPSURGE

Glossary of terms

The following special terms are used in the Desert 

•  a period following a recession marked initially 

Locust Bulletin when reporting locusts:

NON-GREGARIOUS ADULTS AND HOPPERS
ISOLATED   (FEW) 

•  very few present and no mu tu al reaction occurring;
•  0 - 1 adult/400 m foot transect (or less than 25/ha). 

SCATTERED  (SOME, LOW NUMBERS) 

•  enough present for mutual reaction to be possible 

but no ground or basking groups seen;

•  1 - 20 adults/400 m foot transect (or 25 - 500/ha).  

GROUP 

•  forming ground or basking groups;
•  20+ adults/400 m foot transect (or 500+/ha).

by a very large increase in locust numbers and 
con tem po ra ne ous outbreaks followed by the 
production of two or more successive seasons of 
transient-to- gre gar i ous breeding in complimentary 
seasonal breed ing areas in the same or 
neighbouring Desert Lo cust regions.
PLAGUE

•  a period of one or more years of widespread and 
heavy infestations, the majority of which occur as 
bands or swarms. A major plague exists when two 
or more regions are affected simultaneously.
RECESSION

•  period without widespread and heavy infestations 

ADULT SWARM AND HOPPER BAND SIZES
VERY SMALL

by swarms.
REMISSION

•  period of deep recession marked by the complete 

•  swarm: less than 1 km2 

• band: 1 - 25 m2

absence of gregarious populations.

SMALL

•  swarm: 1 - 10 km2 

• band: 25 - 2,500 m2

MEDIUM

•  swarm: 10 - 100 km2  

• band: 2,500 m2 - 10 ha

LARGE

•  swarm: 100 - 500 km2 

• band: 10 - 50 ha

VERY LARGE

•  swarm: 500+ km2 

• band: 50+ ha

No. 350

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N
page 7 of   9

No. 350

D E S E R T  L O C U S T  B U L L E T I N

WARNING LEVELS 
GREEN

•  Calm. No threat to crops. Maintain regular surveys 

and monitoring.
YELLOW

•  Caution. Potential threat to crops. Increased 

vigilance is required; control operations may be 
needed.
ORANGE

•  Threat. Threat to crops. Survey and control 

operations must be undertaken.
RED

•  Danger. Signiﬁ cant threat to crops. Intensive survey 

and control operations must be undertaken.

REGIONS
WESTERN

•  locust-affected countries in West and North-West 

Africa: Algeria, Chad, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, 
Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Tunisia; during plagues 
only: Burkino Faso, Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea 
and Guinea-Bissau.
CENTRAL

•  locust-affected countries along the Red Sea: 

Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Oman, Saudi 
Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen; during plagues 
only: Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Qatar, Syria, Tanzania, Turkey, UAE and Uganda.
EASTERN

•  locust-affected countries in South-West Asia: 

Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan.

page 8 of   9

Desert  Locust  Summary
Criquet  pèlerin  -  Situation  résumée

350

10

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

(unc)

30

20

30

20

10

FORECAST  TO:
PREVISION  AU:
favourable breeding conditions
conditions favourables à la reproduction

15.1.08

LIKELY

PROBABLE

POSSIBLE
POSSIBLE

major swarm(s)
essaim(s) important(s)

minor swarm(s)
essaim(s) limité(s)

non swarming adults
adultes non essaimant

10

20

30

(unc)
40

SITUATION:

Nov 2007
nov 2007

immature adults
adultes immatures
mature or partly mature adults
adultes matures ou partiellement matures
adults, maturity unknown
adultes, maturité inconnue
egg laying or eggs
pontes ou œufs
hoppers
larves
hoppers & adults (combined symbol example)
larves et adultes (exemple symboles combinés)

swarms or

hopper bands
essaims ou

bandes larvaires

adults / hoppers
adultes / larves
in

density

groups

en

groupes

low/unknown

densité

faible/inconnue

